[  Rate coefficients for reactions of nitrate radicals (NO3) with (Z)-pent-2-ene, (E)-pent-2-ene, (Z)-hex-2-ene, (E)-hex-2-ene, (Z)-hex-3-ene, (E)-hex-3-ene and (E)-3-methylpent-2-ene were determined to be (6.55 +/- 0.78)x 10(-13) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1), (3.78 +/- 0.45)x 10(-13) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1), (5.30 +/- 0.73)x 10(-13) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1), (3.83 +/- 0.47)x 10(-13) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1), (4.37 +/- 0.49)x 10(-13) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1), (3.61 +/- 0.40)x 10(-13) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) and (8.9 +/- 1.5)x 10(-12) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1), respectively. We performed kinetic experiments at room temperature and atmospheric pressure using a relative-rate technique with GC-FID analysis. The experimental results demonstrate a surprisingly large cis-trans(Z-E) effect, particularly in the case of the pent-2-enes, where the ratio of rate coefficients is ca. 1.7. Rate coefficients are discussed in terms of electronic and steric influences, and our results give some insight into the effects of chain length and position of the double bond on the reaction of NO3 with unsaturated hydrocarbons. Atmospheric lifetimes were calculated with respect to important oxidants in the troposphere for the alkenes studied, and NO3-initiated oxidation is found to be the dominant degradation route for (Z)-pent-2-ene, (Z)-hex-3-ene and (E)-3-methylpent-2-ene.
,   The visual pigment rhodopsin, the photosensory element of the rod photoreceptor cell in the vertebrate retina, shows in combination with an endogenous ligand, 11-Z retinal, an astonishing photochemical performance. It exhibits an unprecedented quantum yield (0.67) in a highly defined and ultrafast photoisomerization process. This triggers the conformational changes leading to the active state Meta(rhodopsin) II. Retinal is covalently bound to Lys-296 of the protein opsin in a protonated Schiff base. The resulting positive charge delocalization over the terminal part of the polyene chain of retinal creates a conjugation defect that upon photoexcitation moves to the opposite end of the polyene. Shortening the polyene as in 4,5-dehydro,5,6-dihydro (alpha), 5,6-dihydro or 7,8-dihydro-analogs might facilitate photoisomerization of a 9-Z and a 11-Z bond. Here we describe pigment analogs generated with bovine opsin and 11-Z or 9-Z 4,5-dehydro,5,6-dihydro-retinal that were further characterized by UV-Vis and FTIR spectroscopy. The preference of opsin for native 11-Z retinal over the 9-Z isomer is reversed in 4,5-dehydro,5,6-dihydro-retinal. 9-Z 4,5-dehydro,5,6-dihydro-retinal readily generated a photosensitive pigment. This modification has no effect on the quantum yield, but affects the Batho<-->blueshifted intermediate (BSI) equilibrium and leads to a strong decrease in the G-protein activation rate because of a downshift of the pK(a) of the Meta I<-->Meta II equilibrium.
,   To evaluate bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease, and to identify the clinical risk factors associated with low bone mineral density.e mineral density of the lumbar spine was evaluated using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in 40 patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Patients were 11.8 (SD = 4.1) years old and most of them were male (52.5%). Multiple linear regression analysis was performed to identify potential associations between bone mineral density Z-score and age, height-for-age Z-score, BMI Z-score, cumulative corticosteroid dose in milligrams and in milligrams per kilogram, disease duration, number of relapses, and calcium intake according to the dietary reference intake. bone mineral density (Z-score bellow -2) was observed in 25% of patients. Patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis had equivalent prevalence of low bone mineral density. Multiple linear regression models demonstrated that height-for-age Z-score, BMI Z-score, and cumulative corticosteroid dose in mg had independent effects on BMD, respectively, beta = 0.492 (P = 0.000), beta = 0.460 (P = 0.001), beta = - 0.014 (P = 0.000), and these effects remained significant after adjustments for disease duration, respectively, beta = 0.489 (P = 0.013), beta = 0.467 (P = 0.001), and beta = - 0.005 (P = 0.015). The model accounted for 54.6% of the variability of the BMD Z-score (adjusted R2 = 0.546). prevalence of low bone mineral density in children and adolescents with inflammatory bowel disease is considerably high and independent risk factors associated with bone mineral density are corticosteroid cumulative dose in milligrams, height-for-age Z-score, and BMI Z-score.
,   This paper concerns the manner in which combinatorial mating proteins of the fungus, Schizophyllum commune, recognize one another to form complexes that regulate target gene expression. In Schizophyllum, tightly linked Y and Z mating-type genes do not promote development in the combinations present in haploid strains (i.e., self combinations). When the Y and Z genes from two different mating types are brought together by the fusion of two haploid cells, the Y and Z proteins from different mating types recognize one another as nonself, form a complex and activate development. Several Y and Z alleles are present in the population and all nonself combinations of Y and Z alleles are equally functional. We have made chimeric genes among Y1, Y3, Y4 and Y5 and examined their mating-type specificities by transformation and mating tests. These studies show that the specificity of Y protein recognized by Z protein is encoded within a short region of N-terminal amino acids. The critical region is not precisely the same in each Y protein and in each Y-Z protein interaction. For Y3 protein compared with Y4 protein, the critical residues are in an N-terminal region of 56 amino acids (residues 17-72), with 40% identity and 65% similarity. Two-hybrid studies show that: the first 144 amino acids of Y4 protein are sufficient to bind Z3 and Z5 proteins, but not Z4 protein, and proteins deleted of the Y4 specificity region do not bind Z3, Z4 or Z5 protein. Thus the specificity determinant of the Y protein is essential for protein-protein recognition, Y-Z protein binding and mating activity.
,   The Z-drugs zolpidem, zopiclone, and zaleplon were hailed as the innovative hypnotics of the new millennium, an improvement to traditional benzodiazepines in the management of insomnia. Increasing reports of adverse events including bizarre behavior and falls in the elderly have prompted calls for caution and regulation. Z-drugs have significant hypnotic effects by reducing sleep latency and improving sleep quality, though duration of sleep may not be significantly increased. Z-drugs exert their effects through increased γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission at the same GABA-type A receptor as benzodiazepines. Their pharmacokinetics approach those of the ideal hypnotic with rapid onset within 30 min and short half-life (1-7 h). Zopiclone with the longest duration of action has the greatest residual effect, similar to short-acting benzodiazepines. Neuropsychiatric adverse events have been reported with zolpidem including hallucinations, amnesia, and parasomnia. Poisoning with Z-drugs involves predominantly sedation and coma with supportive management being adequate in the majority. Flumazenil has been reported to reverse sedation from all three Z-drugs. Deaths from Z-drugs are rare and more likely to occur with polydrug overdose. Z-drugs can be detected in blood, urine, oral fluid, and postmortem specimens, predominantly with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry techniques. Zolpidem and zaleplon exhibit significant postmortem redistribution. Zaleplon with its ultra-short half-life has been detected in few clinical or forensic cases possibly due to assay unavailability, low frequency of use, and short window of detection. Though Z-drugs have improved pharmacokinetic profiles, their adverse effects, neuropsychiatric sequelae, and incidence of poisoning and death may prove to be similar to older hypnotics.
,   A kinetic study of the gas-phase reactions of OH radicals with three unsaturated biogenic alcohols, (E)-3-hexen-1-ol, (Z)-3-hepten-1-ol, and (Z)-3-octen-1-ol, has been performed. The rate coefficients obtained are (in units of 10(-10) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)) k1 (OH + (E)-CH2(OH)CH2CH═CHCH2CH3) = (1.14 ± 0.14), k2 (OH + (Z)-CH2(OH)CH2CH═CHCH2CH2CH3) = (1.28 ± 0.23), and k3 (OH + (Z)-CH2(OH)CH2CH═CHCH2CH2CH2CH3) = (1.49 ± 0.35). In addition, a product study on the reactions of OH with (E)-3-hexen-1-ol and (Z)-3-hepten-1-ol is reported. All the experiments were performed at (298 ± 2) K and 1 atm of NOx-free air in a 1080 L photoreactor with in situ FTIR detection of organics. This work constitutes the first kinetic study of the reactions of OH radicals with (Z)-3-hepten-1-ol and (Z)-3-octen-1-ol as well as the first determination of the fate of the hydroxy alkoxy radicals formed in the title reactions. An analysis of the available rates of addition of OH and Cl to the double bond of different unsaturated alcohols at 298 K has shown that they can be related by the expression log kOH = (0.29 ± 0.04) log kCl - 10.8. The atmospheric lifetimes of the alcohols studies were estimated to be around 1 h for reaction with OH radicals. The products formed in the title reactions are mainly carbonylic compounds that can contribute to the formation of ozone and PANs-type compounds in the troposphere. 
,   Three covalent attachments anchor heterotrimeric G proteins to cellular membranes: the alpha subunits are myristoylated and/or palmitoylated, whereas the gamma chain is prenylated. Despite the essential role of these modifications in membrane attachment, it is not clear how they cooperate to specify G protein localization at the plasma membrane, where the G protein relays signals from cell surface receptors to intracellular effector molecules. To explore this question, we studied the effects of mutations that prevent myristoylation and/or palmitoylation of an epitope-labeled alpha subunit, alpha z. Wild-type alpha z (alpha z-WT) localizes specifically at the plasma membrane. A mutant that incorporates only myristate is mistargeted to intracellular membranes, in addition to the plasma membrane, but transduces hormonal signals as well as does alpha z-WT. Removal of the myristoylation site produced a mutant alpha z that is located in the cytosol, is not efficiently palmitoylated, and does not relay the hormonal signal. Coexpression of beta gamma with this myristoylation defective mutant transfers it to the plasma membrane, promotes its palmitoylation, and enables it to transmit hormonal signals. Pulse-chase experiments show that the palmitate attached to this myristoylation-defective mutant turns over much more rapidly than does palmitate on alpha z-WT, and that the rate of turnover is further accelerated by receptor activation. In contrast, receptor activation does not increase the slow rate of palmitate turnover on alpha z-WT. Together these results suggest that myristate and beta gamma promote stable association with membranes not only by providing hydrophobicity, but also by stabilizing attachment of palmitate. Moreover, palmitoylation confers on alpha z specific localization at the plasma membrane.
,   To quantify lean mass (LM) and fat mass (FM) in survivors of childhood allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (alloHSCT) compared with healthy reference participants and identify risk factors for body composition abnormalities.le body LM and FM were measured with dual energy x-ray absorptiometry in 54 survivors (ages 5-25 years) and 894 healthy reference participants in a cross-sectional study. Multivariate regression models were used to compare sex- and race-specific Z-scores for LM for height (LM-Ht) and FM for height (FM-Ht) in survivors and reference participants and to identify correlates of LM-Ht and FM-Ht Z-scores in alloHSCT.ght Z-scores were significantly lower in alloHSCT survivors (P < .001) compared with reference participants; body mass index Z-scores did not differ (P = .13). Survivors had significantly lower mean LM-Ht Z-scores (-0.72; 95% CI, -1.02--0.42; P < .001) and greater FM-Ht Z-scores (1.10; 95% CI, 0.84-1.39; P < .001) compared with reference participants. LM-Ht Z-score deficits in alloHSCT survivors were larger (-1.26; 95% CI, -1.53--0.99; P < .001) after adjustment for FM-Ht Z-scores. Endocrinopathies and alloHSCT characteristics were not associated with LM-Ht or FM-Ht Z-scores.vivors of childhood alloHSCT have significant LM deficits and FM excess. Future studies should identify the mechanism and consequences of these abnormalities.
,   Blocks of potential Z-DNA-forming (dA-dC)n.(dG-dT)n sequences are ubiquitous in eukaryotic genomes. We examined whether naturally occurring polyamines, putrescine, spermidine and spermine, could provoke the Z-DNA conformation in plasmids pDHf2 and pDHf14 with 23 and 60 bp inserts respectively of (dA-dC)n.(dG-dT)n sequences using an e.l.i.s.a. Spermidine and spermine could provoke Z-DNA conformation in these plasmids, but putrescine was ineffective. For pDHf2 and pDHf14, the concentration of spermidine at the midpoint of B-DNA to Z-DNA transition was 25 microM, whereas that of spermine was 16 microM. Polyamine structural specificity was evident in the ability of spermidine homologues to induce Z-DNA. Inorganic cations, Co(NH3)6(3+) and Ru(NH3)6(3+), were ineffective. Our experiments also showed increased binding of anti-DNA autoantibodies from lupus patients as well as autoimmune MRL-lpr/lpr mice to pDHf2 and pDHf14 in the presence of polyamines. These data demonstrate that small blocks of (dA-dC)n.(dG-dT)n sequences could assume the Z-DNA conformation in the presence of natural polyamines. Increased concentrations of polyamines in the sera of lupus patients might facilitate immune complex-formation involving circulating DNA and anti-Z-DNA antibodies.
,   Oral candidosis is common in patients with diabetes mellitus, as yeasts, particularly Candida albicans, have the propensity to colonise, form biofilms and release hydrolytic enzymes which cause inflammation. This study aimed to investigate these characteristics in isolates from three groups of patients with type 1 diabetes: individuals with better controlled diabetes (BCD; >or=6 <8%), individuals with poorly controlled diabetes (PCD; >or=8%) and non-diabetics (ND; HbA(1c) <5.9%). The biomass (Bm), phospholipase (P(z)), haemolysin (H(z)) and proteinase (Pr(z)) were assessed using a microtitre biofilm assay and agar-based hydrolytic enzyme assays. Biofilm formation was significantly increased in the PCD group compared to ND and BCD groups (P < 0.05). No significant differences in P(z) levels were observed between groups, whereas both H(z) and Pr(z) were significantly greater in the diabetes groups than in the healthy control group (P < 0.05). Statistically significant correlations were found to exist between the HbA(1c) levels of the patients and the Bm (R = 0.384; P = 0.033), haemolysin activity (R = -0.455; P = 0.010) and proteinase activity (R = -0.531; P = 0.002). There was no apparent correlation between the Bm and P(z) activity (R = -0.305; P = 0.053) or H(z) activity (R = -0.100; P = 0.296). However, a negative correlation was found between Bm and Pr(z) values (R = -0.343; P = 0.030). These data suggest that biofilm formation is likely to play a role in the pathogenicity of oral candidosis, and in patients with diabetes, this may be due to the ability of C. albicans to adapt to the altered physiological environment. The production of hydrolytic enzymes is independently associated with this growth modality.
,   The main purpose of this study was to analyze the differences in neck mobility between children with chronic tension type headache (CTTH) and healthy children, and to determine the influence of cervical mobility on headache intensity, frequency and duration. Fifty children, 13 boys and 37 girls (mean age 8.5 ± 1.6 years) with CTTH associated to peri-cranial tenderness (IHS 2.3.1) and 50 age- and sex matched children without headache (13 boys, 37 girls, mean age 8.5 ± 1.8 years, P = 0.955) participated. Cervical range of motion (CROM) was objectively assessed with a cervical goniometer by an assessor blinded to the children's condition. Children completed a headache diary for 4 weeks to confirm the diagnosis. Children with CTTH showed decreased CROM as compared to children without headache for flexion (z = -6.170; P < 0.001), extension (z = -4.230; P < 0.001), right (z = -4.505; P < 0.001) and left (z = -4.768; P < 0.001) lateral-flexions, but not for rotation (right z = -0.802; P = 0.425; left z = -1.254; P = 0.213) and also for total range of motion for flexion-extension (z = -4.267; P < 0.001) and lateral-flexion (z = -4.801; P < 0.001), but not for rotation (z = -1.058; P = 0.293). Within CTTH children, CROM was not correlated with headache intensity, frequency or duration. Additionally, age (P > 0.125) or gender (P > 0.250) did not influence CROM in either children with CTTH or without headache. Current results support the hypothesis that the cervical spine should be explored in children with headache. Further research is also needed to clearly define the potential role of the cervical spine in the genesis or maintenance of CTTH.
,   To develop an index of the quality of nutritional care of premature infants based on the change in weight Z score from birth to discharge and to illustrate the use of this index in comparing the performance of different NICUs.rospective data analysis was performed to compare the growth of premature infants born in three perinatal centers. Infants with gestational age ≤ 32 weeks who survived to discharge from 2006 to 2010 were included. Weight Z scores at birth and discharge were calculated by the method of Fenton. Using data from one NICU as the reference, a multivariable linear regression model of change in weight Z score from birth to discharge was developed. Employing this model, a benchmark value of change in weight Z score was calculated for each baby. The difference between this calculated benchmark value and the baby's observed change in weight Z score was defined as the performance gap for that infant. The average value of the performance gaps in a NICU serves as its quality care index.14 infants were included for analysis. Change in weight Z score is influenced by birth weight Z score and completed weeks of gestation; thus the model for calculating the benchmark change in weight Z score was adjusted for these two variables. We found statistically significant differences in the average performance gaps for the three units.uality care index was developed based on change in weight Z score from birth to discharge adjusted for two initial risk factors. This objective, easily calculated index may be used as a measurement of the quality of nutritional care to rank the performance of different NICUs.
,   To determine whether conformers of 2-formyl-2H-pyran (2F2HP) can serve as intermediates in the isomerization (Z,Z)-muconaldehyde-->(E,Z)-muconaldehyde--an essential step in the metabolic oxidation of benzene in which (E,E)-muconic acid is formed--we have carried out ab initio molecular orbital calculations at the MP2/6-31G* (frozen core, valence orbitals active) level with full geometry optimization at the RHF/6-31G* level. Taking account of the configuration about the carbon-carbon single bonds as well as that about the double bonds, the six conformers of (Z,Z)-muconaldehyde have been characterized, as well as the eight conformers of (E,Z)-muconaldehyde. Axial and equatorial conformers of 2F2HP have been identified, which exist in stable syn or anti forms depending on the relative position of the pyran and carbonyl O-atoms. Each step in the metabolic pathway is stereospecific. The initial ring opening in 2,3-epoxyoxepin gives (eZzZz)-muconaldehyde, which then undergoes ring closure to give anti-axial-2F2HP (step a). Inversion of the ring gives anti-equatorial-2F2HP, which upon ring opening gives (zEzZz)-muconaldehyde (step b). An alternative pathway links (zZzZz)-muconaldehyde with syn-axial-2F2HP (step a'), and syn-equatorial with (eEzZz)-muconaldehyde (step b'). Half-reaction times, taking into account the fractional representation of each reacting conformer in rapidly established equilibrium mixtures, suggest that the operative pathway is via step a, with little to choose between steps b and b'.
,   Hydrogen rearrangement is an important process in radical chemistry. A high degree of H. rearrangement to and from z. ionic fragments (combined occurrence frequency 47% compared with that of z.) is confirmed in analysis of 15,000 tandem mass spectra of tryptic peptides obtained with electron capture dissociation (ECD), including previously unreported double H. losses. Consistent with the radical character of H. abstraction, the residue determining the formation rate of z' = z. + H. species is found to be the N-terminal residue in z. species. The size of the complementary c(m)' fragment turned out to be another important factor, with z' species dominating over z. ions for m < or = 6. The H. atom was found to be abstracted from the side chains as well as from alpha-carbon groups of residues composing the c' species, with Gln and His in the c' fragment promoting H. donation and Asp and Ala opposing it. Ab initio calculations of formation energies of .A radicals (A is an amino acid) confirmed that the main driving force for H. abstraction by z. is the process exothermicity. No valid correlation was found between the NC(alpha) bond strength and the frequency of this bond cleavage, indicating that other factors than thermochemistry are responsible for directing the site of ECD cleavage. Understanding hydrogen attachment to and loss from ECD fragments should facilitate automatic interpretation ECD mass spectra in protein identification and characterization, including de novo sequencing.
,   Pressurized liquid extraction, one of the most promising and recent sample preparation techniques, offers the advantages of reducing solvent consumption and allowing for automated sample handling. It is being exploited in diverse areas because of its distinct advantages. However, because the extraction is performed at elevated temperatures using PLE, thermal degradation could be a concern. Z-ligustilide, one of the biologically active components in Angelica sinensis, is an unstable compound, which decomposes rapidly at high temperature. In this study, we carried out a comparative study to evaluate PLE as a possible alternative to current extraction methods like Soxhlet and sonication for simultaneous extraction of Z-ligustilide, Z-butylidenephthalide and ferulic acid in A. sinensis. The operating parameters for PLE including extraction solvent, particle size, pressure, temperature, static extraction time, flush volume and numbers of extraction were optimized by using univariate approach coupled with central composite design (CCD) in order to obtain the highest extraction efficiency. Determination of Z-ligustilide, Z-butylidenephthalide and ferulic acid were carried out by means of high performance liquid chromatography with diode-array detector. The results showed that PLE was a simple, high efficient and automated method with lower solvent consumption compared to conventional extraction methods such as Soxhlet and sonication. PLE could be used for simultaneous extraction of Z-ligustilide, Z-butylidenephthalide and ferulic acid in A. sinensis.
,   The related Drosophila Suppressor 2 of zeste [Su(z)2] and Posterior sex combs (Psc) proteins are both locus-specific chromosome binding proteins. They are found at many of the same polytene chromosome loci as other Polycomb-group proteins. The 1,365 amino acid Su(z)2 protein and the 1,603 amino acid Psc protein share a conserved 200 amino acid domain, the homology region (HR). To identify the protein domain responsible for locus-specific chromosome binding, we made a series of Hsp70:cDNA deletion constructs of the Sz(z)2 gene and transformed these into flies. We found that the HR is necessary and sufficient for Su(z)2 locus-specific polytene chromosome binding. The murine Bmi-1 protein also shares the conserved HR domain. When expressed in flies, the Bmi-1 protein showed a locus-specific chromosome binding pattern similar to that of the Su(z)2 and Psc proteins. These results argue that a locus-specific chromosome binding function resides in the HR domain. Other results show that a second, low affinity, non-specific chromosome binding function is localized outside the HR in the Su(z)2 protein, and that the Su(z)2 protein contains at least two nuclear localization signals.
,   The behavior of subtilisin 72 in some aprotic solvents (acetonitrile, dioxane, and tetrahydrofurane) was studied. The enzyme was shown to be partially soluble in tetrahydrofurane, but it is rendered profoundly inactive in this solution. In acetonitrile and dioxane, subtilisin formed dilute suspensions whose activities were measured after dilution with water. Under these conditions, subtilisin suspended in acetonitrile manifested an activity that was an order of magnitude higher than that of its dioxane suspension, and this activity continued for a long time. Z-Ala-Ala-Leu-pNA was synthesized from Z-Ala-Ala-OCH3 and Leu-pNA under the catalysis by dilute suspension of subtilisin in acetonitrile. p-Nitroanilides of tetrapeptides, Z-Ala-Ala-P1-P'1-pNA, where P1 and P'1 were either Leu or Phe, were similarly synthesized in acetonitrile under catalysis by dilute subtilisin suspension at [S]:[E] = 10(5):1. p-Nitroanilides of tripeptides, Z-Ala-Ala-Leu-pNA, Z-Ala-Ala-Phe-pNA, and Z-Ala-Ala-Phe-NH2, were also synthesized in the presence of a concentrated subtilisin suspension at [S]:[E] = 10(3):1. It was shown that the increase in enzyme concentration resulted in the double coupling of nucleophile, and Z-Ala-Ala-Leu-Leu-pNA, Z-Ala-Ala-Phe-Phe-pNA, and Z-Ala-Ala-Phe-Phe-NH2 were obtained with 13, 33, and 40% yields, respectively. Therefore, such reaction systems can be used for creating long hydrophobic peptides whose synthesis in water-organic mixtures is difficult due to the poor solubility of starting components in aqueous buffer solutions.
,   A unique electrophoretic form of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-Z), formerly observed in a choriocarcinoma cell line (JEG-3) and first-trimester placenta, has been shown to be the same as that produced in hydatidiform mole and term placenta. We have also observed LDH-Z in second-trimester placenta, choriocarcinoma metastasized to the liver, and five of five additional independently derived (from different patients) choriocarcinoma cell lines. The only exception to the production of LDH-Z in a choriocarcinoma was in the cell line BEWO, which was established from the same tumor as JEG-3. Since BEWO has been in culture for over 200 passages more than any of the independently derived lines, its lack of LDH-Z is viewed as being consistent with the loss of certain expressional characteristics upon such long-term culture. Analysis of JEG-3 subclones revealed the expression of LDH-Z to be independent of the products of the LDH-A genetic locus. Present data do not allow us to determine whether LDH-Z is the product of a newly discovered LDH locus or is a modified form of the product of the LDH-B locus. LDH-Z has not been observed in other human tissues, nor have we observed it in homogenates prepared from over 60 cell lines established from a wide variety of human neoplasms. We therefore conclude that LDH-Z is an isozyme associated with human choriocarcinoma and is indicative of the trophoblastic origin of the cells.
,   The Z-box is one of the light-responsive elements (LREs) found in the promoters of light inducible genes. We have studied the light responsive characteristics of Z-box containing synthetic as well as native promoters. We show that promoters with Z-box as a single LRE or paired with another LRE can respond to a broad spectrum of light. The response is primarily mediated by phyA, phyB and CRY1 photoreceptors at their respective wavelengths of light. We have demonstrated that CAB1 and Z-GATA containing promoters are down-regulated in hy5 mutants in the light. On the other hand, a promoter with Z-box alone is down-regulated in hy5 mutants both in dark and in light conditions, suggesting involvement of a similar regulatory system in the regulation of the promoter in two distinct developmental pathways: skotomorphogenesis and photomorphogenesis. Furthermore, similar to the CAB1 promoter, a Z-GATA containing promoter is derepressed in cop1 mutants in the dark. DNA-protein interaction studies reveal the presence of a DNA-binding activity that is specific to Z-box. These results provide insights into the regulation of the Z-box LRE mediated by various light signaling components.
,   The likelihood that a given DNA sequence will adopt the Z conformation in negatively supercoiled DNA depends on the energy difference between the B form and the Z form for that sequence relative to other sequences in the same molecule. This energy can be viewed simply as a sum of energies for the nearest-neighbor interactions within the sequence plus the energy required to stabilize the B-Z boundaries. Knowledge of these energetic terms would be of value in predicting when sequences become left-handed in response to negative superhelicity. Here we present an approach that can be used to determine the free-energy changes associated with all the nearest-neighbor interactions that can occur in Z-DNA. Synthetic stretches of d(C-G)n containing one or two transversions were cloned into plasmids, and the extent of the B-Z transition as a function of negative superhelicity was determined for each insert by two-dimensional agarose gel electrophoresis. By subjecting the data to statistical mechanical analysis, it was possible to evaluate the energetic penalty resulting from each base-pair (bp) substitution. Guanine to cytosine transversions cost 2.4 kcal (1 cal = 4.18 J)/(mol X bp), whereas guanine to thymine transversions cost 3.4 kcal/(mol X bp), to stabilize in the Z conformation. We have used these numbers, along with energetic values determined by others for the B-Z transition, to predict that certain strictly nonalternating purine and pyrimidine sequences may adopt the Z form readily.
,   Amino acid residue-specific backbone and side-chain dissociations of peptide z ions in MS(3) spectra were elucidated for over 40 pentapeptides with arginine C-terminated sequences of the AAXAR and AAHXR type, nonapeptides of the AAHAAXX"AR and AAHAXAX"AR type, and AAHAAXX"AAR decapeptides. Peptide z(n) ions containing amino acid residues with readily transferrable benzylic or tertiary β-hydrogen atoms (Phe, Tyr, His, Trp, Val) underwent facile backbone cleavages to form dominant z(n-2) or z(n-3) ions. These backbone cleavages are thought to be triggered by a side-chain β-hydrogen atom transfer to the z ion C(α) radical site followed by homolytic dissociation of the adjacent C(α)-CO bond, forming x(n-2) cation-radicals that spontaneously dissociate by loss of HNCO. Amino acid residues that do not have readily transferrable β-hydrogen atoms (Gly, Ala) do not undergo the z(n) → z(n-2) dissociations. The backbone cleavages compete with side-chain dissociations in z ions containing Asp and Asn residues. Side-chain dissociations are thought to be triggered by α-hydrogen atom transfers that activate the C(β)-C(γ) or C(β)-heteroatom bonds for dissociations that dominate the MS(3) spectra of z ions from peptides containing Leu, Cys, Lys, Met, Ser, Arg, Glu, and Gln residues. The Lys, Arg, Gln, and Glu residues also participate in γ-hydrogen atom transfers that trigger other side-chain dissociations.
,   DNA can adopt many structures that differ from the canonical B-form, and several of these non-canonical DNA structures have been implicated in genetic instability associated with human disease. Earlier, we found that Z-DNA causes DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in mammalian cells that can result in large-scale deletions and rearrangements. In contrast, the same Z-DNA-forming CG repeat in Escherichia coli resulted in only small contractions or expansions within the repeat. This difference in the Z-DNA-induced mutation spectrum between mammals and bacteria might be due to different mechanisms for DSB repair; in mammalian cells, non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) is a major DSB repair pathway, while E. coli do not contain this system and typically use homologous recombination (HR) to process DSBs. To test the extent to which the different DSB repair pathways influenced the Z-DNA-induced mutagenesis, we engineered bacterial E.coli strains to express an inducible NHEJ system, to mimic the situation in mammalian cells. Mycobacterium tuberculosis NHEJ proteins Ku and ligase D (LigD) were expressed in E.coli cells in the presence or absence of HR, and the Z-DNA-induced mutations were characterized. We found that the presence of the NHEJ mechanism markedly shifted the mutation spectrum from small deletions/insertions to large-scale deletions (from 2% to 24%). Our results demonstrate that NHEJ plays a role in the generation of Z-DNA-induced large-scale deletions, suggesting that this pathway is associated with DNA structure-induced destabilization of genomes from prokaryotes to eukaryotes.
,   Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is a simple and reliable method, but there are few data about its use in pediatric forms of neuromuscular diseases (NMD). The aim of this study was to evaluate the nutritional effects and tolerance of gastrostomy feeding in NMD patients.lve patients with NMD, ranging in age from 1 month to 25.5 years, underwent a gastrostomy placement (PEG, n = 11; surgical gastrostomy, n = 1) between January 1990 and December 2000. Diseases were muscular dystrophies (n = 5), infantile spinal muscular atrophies (n = 3), congenital myopathies (n = 3), and polyradiculoneuritis (n = 1). Height-for-age (Z(H/A)), weight-for-age (Z(W/A)), and weight-for-height (Z(W/H)) z scores were assessed at birth, at the time of gastrostomy placement, after a 6-month and 1-year follow-up, and at the end of follow-up. Complications that occurred during the gastrostomy feeding period were recorded. Comparisons of z scores at the different times were performed with repeated-measures analyses of variance./A) (p < .05) and Z(W/H) (p < .001) improved in the whole group after gastrostomy. For the 10 patients for whom follow-up was more than 1 year, Z(W/A) (p < .03) and Z(W/H) (p < .001) increased from the time of gastrostomy to the end of follow-up. Among 5 patients who had a gastroesophageal reflux diagnosed before gastrostomy placement, 3 had at least 1 episode of pneumonia and 2 died of respiratory distress caused by the worsening of NMD. No other major complication was encountered.trostomy feeding is well tolerated and results in an improvement of nutritional indices in NMD patients. Special care should be taken in patients with preexisting gastroesophageal reflux.
,   HER2-specific affibody molecules in different formats have previously been shown to be useful tumor targeting agents for radionuclide-based imaging and therapy applications, but their biological effect on tumor cells is not well known. In this study, two dimeric ((Z(HER2:4))(2) and (Z(HER2:342))(2)) and one monomeric (Z(HER2:342)) HER2-specific affibody molecules are investigated with respect to biological activity. Both (Z(HER2:4))(2) and (Z(HER2:342))(2) were found to decrease the growth rate of SKBR-3 cells to the same extent as the antibody trastuzumab. When the substances were removed, the cells treated with the dimeric affibody molecules continued to be growth suppressed while the cells treated with trastuzumab immediately resumed normal proliferation. The effects of Z(HER2:342) were minor on both proliferation and cell signaling. The dimeric (Z(HER2:4))(2) and (Z(HER2:342))(2) both reduced growth of SKBR-3 cells and may prove therapeutically useful either by themselves or as carriers of radionuclides or other cytotoxic agents.
,   Caspase-3 is responsible for the cleavage of several proteins including the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Designed on the cleavage site of PARP, Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-H has been reported as a highly specific inhibitor. To overcome the susceptibility to proteolysis, the intrinsic instability, and the scarce membrane permeability of tetra-peptidyl aldehydes, di- and tri-peptidyl caspase-3 inhibitors have been synthesized. Here, the synthesis and the inhibition properties of peptidyl aldehydes Z-tLeu-Asp-H, Z-tLeu-Val-Asp-H, and Z-Val-tLeu-Asp-H are reported. Z-tLeu-Asp-H, Z-tLeu-Val-Asp-H, and Z-Val-tLeu-Asp-H inhibit competitively human caspase-3 activity in vitro with K(i)(0)=3.6nM, 18.2nM, and 109nM, respectively (pH 7.4 and 25 degrees C). Moreover, Z-tLeu-Asp-H impairs apoptosis in human DLD-1 colon adenocarcinoma cells without affecting caspase-8. Therefore, Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-H can be truncated to Z-tLeu-Asp-H retaining nanomolar inhibitory activity in vitro and displaying action in whole cells, these properties reflect the unprecedented introduction of the bulky and lipophilic tLeu residue at the P(2) position.
,   The caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbony (Cbz)-l-Val-Ala-Asp (OMe)-fluoromethylketone (z-VAD-FMK) has recently been shown to inhibit T cell proliferation without blocking caspase-8 and caspase-3 activation in primary T cells. We showed in this study that z-VAD-FMK treatment leads to a decrease in intracellular glutathione (GSH) with a concomitant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in activated T cells. The inhibition of anti-CD3-mediated T cell proliferation induced by z-VAD-FMK was abolished by the presence of low molecular weight thiols such as GSH, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and l-cysteine, whereas d-cysteine which cannot be metabolised to GSH has no effect. These results suggest that the depletion of intracellular GSH is the underlying cause of z-VAD-FMK-mediated inhibition of T cell activation and proliferation. The presence of exogenous GSH also attenuated the inhibition of anti-CD3-induced CD25 and CD69 expression mediated by z-VAD-FMK. However, none of the low molecular weight thiols were able to restore the caspase-inhibitory properties of z-VAD-FMK in activated T cells where caspase-8 and caspase-3 remain activated and processed into their respective subunits in the presence of the caspase inhibitor. This suggests that the inhibition of T cell proliferation can be uncoupled from the caspase-inhibitory properties of z-VAD-FMK. Taken together, the immunosuppressive effects in primary T cells mediated by z-VAD-FMK are due to oxidative stress via the depletion of GSH. 
,   Through literature retrieval, there has been no report on the research of the chemical components in Zanthoxylum avicennae (Lam.) DC. This paper extracted and determined the chemical components of the volatile oil in Z. avicennae, and at the same time, measured and evaluated the bioactivity of the volatile oil in Z. avicennae.extract the volatile oil in Z. avicennae by steam distillation method, determined the chemical composition of the volatile oil by GC-MS coupling technique, and adopt the peak area normalization method to measured the relative percentage of each chemical composition in the volatile oil. Meanwhile, we use the Lethal-to-prawn larva bioactivity experiment to screen the cytotoxicity activities of the volatile oil in Z. avicennae, and using the slanting test-tube experiment to determine and evaluate its antibacterial activities in vitro for the eight kinds of plant pathogenic fungi in the volatile oil of the Z. avicennae. results show that 68 kinds of compounds are determined from the volatile oil of Z. avicennae. The determined part takes up 97.89% of the total peak area. The main ingredients in the volatile oil of Z. avicennae are sesquiterpenoids and monoterpene. The test results show that the volatile oil in Z. avicennae has strong antibacterial activities and cytotoxicity, with the strongest antibacterial activity against the Rhizoctonia solani AG1-1A.s research results will provide reference data for understanding the chemical composition of the volatile oil in the aromatic plant of Z. avicennae and its bioactivity, and for its further development and application.
,   The three-dimensional structure of the vertebrate skeletal muscle Z band reflects its function as the muscle component essential for tension transmission between successive sarcomeres. We have investigated this structure as well as that of the nearby I band in a normal, unstimulated mammalian skeletal muscle by tomographic three-dimensional reconstruction from electron micrograph tilt series of sectioned tissue. The three-dimensional Z band structure consists of interdigitating axial filaments from opposite sarcomeres connected every 18 +/- 12 nm (mean +/- SD) to one to four cross-connecting Z-filaments are observed to meet the axial filaments in a fourfold symmetric arrangement. The substantial variation in the spacing between cross-connecting Z-filament to axial filament connection points suggests that the structure of the Z band is not determined solely by the arrangement of alpha-actinin to actin-binding sites along the axial filament. The cross-connecting filaments bind to or form a "relaxed interconnecting body" halfway between the axial filaments. This filamentous body is parallel to the Z band axial filaments and is observed to play an essential role in generating the small square lattice pattern seen in electron micrographs of unstimulated muscle cross sections. This structure is absent in cross section of the Z band from muscles fixed in rigor or in tetanus, suggesting that the Z band lattice must undergo dynamic rearrangement concomitant with crossbridge binding in the A band.
,   The present study assessed the absolute and relative bioavailabilities of dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides (tetraenes), the main bioactive constituents in Echinacea, administered as pure compounds or in the form of an Echinacea purpurea root extract preparation. Tetraenes were administered orally by gavage or intravenously in a dose of 0.75 mg/kg. The extract was administered orally in a dose of 158.6 mg/kg which corresponds to the same amount of tetraenes. Pharmacokinetic parameters of tetraenes were calculated by non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin® 5.2 software. Mean dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamide dose-normalized plasma area under the concentration-time curve (AUC₀-∞/dose) was 3.24 ± 0.32 min · ng/mL/µg and 0.95 ± 0.16 min · ng/mL/µg after iv and oral administrations, respectively, and 1.53 ± 0.18 min · ng/mL/µg after oral administration of the Echinacea root extract. The absolute oral bioavailability of dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides was 29.2 ± 2.3 %, which was increased to 47.1 ± 7.2 % (1.6-fold) by administration of the Echinacea extract. Administration of an Echinacea extract increased blood exposure with no impact on C(max), but prolonged the elimination half-life to 123.3 ± 15.7 min in comparison to 35.8 ± 6.5 min after administration of the pure dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides.
,   The Drosophila Polycomb group protein E(z) is a histone methyltransferase (HMTase) that is essential for maintaining HOX gene silencing during development. E(z) exists in a multiprotein complex called Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) that also contains Su(z)12, Esc and Nurf55. Reconstituted recombinant PRC2 methylates nucleosomes in vitro, but recombinant E(z) on its own shows only poor HMTase activity on nucleosomes. Here, we investigate the function of the PRC2 subunits. We show that PRC2 binds to nucleosomes in vitro but that individual PRC2 subunits alone do not bind to nucleosomes. By analysing PRC2 subcomplexes, we show that Su(z)12-Nurf55 is the minimal nucleosome-binding module of PRC2 and that Esc contributes to high-affinity binding of PRC2 nucleosomes. We find that nucleosome binding of PRC2 is not sufficient for histone methylation and that only complexes that contain Esc protein show robust HMTase activity. These observations suggest that different subunits provide mechanistically distinct functions within the PRC2 HMTase: the nucleosome-binding subunits Su(z)12 and Nurf55 anchor the E(z) enzyme on chromatin substrates, whereas Esc is needed to boost enzymatic activity.
,   Protein Z is a vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein that plays a role in the regulation of coagulation. A nucleotide substitution of G by C in exon II of the protein Z gene, resulting in the replacement of Glu-30 with Gln (E30Q), and a G to A transition at the 79th nucleotide in intron F (IntF79G/A) were heterozygously identified in a patient with a severe thrombotic tendency, whose plasma protein Z level was about 15% of normal. Other vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors were within normal ranges. Glu-30 is one of 13 gamma-carboxylation sites in protein Z and is well conserved among vitamin K-dependent proteins. Expression studies revealed that the E30Q mutant was not released from synthesizing cells, although wild-type protein Z was readily secreted in a vitamin K-dependent fashion. The E30Q mutant was N-glycosylated, gamma-carboxylated, and translocated from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi in the presence of vitamin K, as was the wild type. Coexpression of E30Q with wild-type protein Z interfered with the secretion of the wild type, while only a minor or no effect was observed on the secretion of factor X and plasminogen. The IntF79A allele has been reported to be also associated with lowered protein Z levels.
,   During a study of microbial communities in athalassic bodies of water, three new species within the genus Spirochaeta were described. These are alkaliphilic Spirochaeta alkalica sp. nov. Z-7491 (DSM 8900) and halophilic S. africana sp. nov. Z-7692 (DSM 8902) from the soda-depositing Lake Magadi in Central Africa and haloalkaliphilic S. asiatica sp. nov. Z-7591 (DSM 8901) from Lake Khatyn, Central Asia. These mesophilic spirochetes develop at pHs of > 9 as anaerobic saccharolytic dissipotrophs. The DNA base compositions (moles percent G+C) of the strains were as follows: S. alkalica Z-7491, 57.1; S. africana Z-7692, 56.1; and S. asiatica Z-7591, 49.2. The optimum growth parameters (temperature, pH, and NaCl concentration [percent, wt/vol], respectively) were as follows: for S. alkalica Z-7491, 35 degrees C, 9.2, and 5 to 7%; for S. africana Z-7692, 35 degrees C, 9.3, and 5 to 7%; and for S. asiatica Z-7591, 35 degrees C, 8.9, and 3 to 6%. The products of glucose fermentation were acetate, hydrogen, ethanol, and lactate, in different proportions, for S. alkalica and S. africana; for S. asiatica, they were acetate, ethanol, and lactate. S. asiatica is strictly anaerobic, while S. alkalica and S. africana are rather aerotolerant. All three species group within the radiation of the majority of the species of the genus Spirochaeta. Studies of the genes encoding 16S rRNA indicate a possible fanning out of the phylogenetic tree of spirochetes.
,   Methylation of cytosine bases at the C5 position has been known to stabilize Z-DNA. We had previously predicted from calculations of solvent-accessible surfaces that the methyl group at the same position of thymine has a destabilizing effect on Z-DNA. In the current studies, the sequence d(m5CGUAm5CG) has been crystallized and its structure solved as Z-DNA to 1.3-A resolution. A well-defined octahedral hexaaquomagnesium complex was observed to bridge the O4 oxygens of the adjacent uridine bases at the major groove surface, and four well-structured water molecules were found in the minor groove crevice at the d(UA) dinucleotide. These solvent interactions were not observed in the previously published Z-DNA structure of the analogous d(m5CGTAm5CG) sequence. A comparison of the thymine and uridine structures supports our prediction that demethylation of thymine bases helps to stabilize Z-DNA. A comparison of this d(UA)-containing Z-DNA structure with the analogous d(TA) structure shows that access of the O4 position is hindered by the C5 methyl of thymine due to steric and hydrophobic inhibition. In the absence of the methyl group, a magnesium-water complex binds to and slightly affects the structure of the Z-DNA major groove surface. This perturbation of the solvent structure at the major groove surface is translated into a much larger 1.41-A widening of the minor groove crevice, thereby allowing the specific binding of two water molecules at well-defined sites of each internal d(UA) base pair. Possible mechanisms by which modifications at the major groove surface of Z-DNA can affect the solvent properties of the minor groove crevice are discussed.
,   Platelet activating factor (PAF) is a potent lipid mediator that is involved in many important biological functions, including platelet aggregation and neuronal differentiation. Although an ELISA assay has been used to measure PAF levels, it cannot distinguish between its isoforms. To achieve this, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been used instead. However, isobaric lysophosphatidylcholine (lyso PC), which is often present in large amounts in complex biological samples and has similar retention times in many LC conditions, can affect the accurate measurement of PAF. The present study examined the fragmentation behavior of major PAF and lyso PC during various MS/MS conditions. Fragment ions at m/z 184 and at m/z 104 were abundantly observed from MS/MS of lyso PCs. PAF provided a dominant fragment ion at m/z 184, but a fragment ion at m/z 104 was almost never produced, regardless of the collision energy. Thus, the two fragment ions at m/z 184 and m/z 104 were used to accurately measure PAF levels. First, the fragment ion at m/z 184 and the retention time of PAF in LC-MS/MS were used to identify and quantitate PAF. However, if there were small retention time shifts, which are common in multiple sample runs, and lipid composition in a sample is very complicated, the fragment ion at m/z 104 was used to confirm whether the fragment ion at m/z 184 belonged to PAF. This novel method accurately determined the major PAF (C16:0 PAF, C18:0 PAF, and C18:1 PAF) levels in human plasma. 
,   Macular pigment (MP) is composed of the xanthophylls lutein (L) and zeaxanthin (Z) and may help to prevent age-related macular degeneration or retard its progression. In this study the effects of L or Z supplementation on carotenoid levels was examined in serum, adipose tissue, and retina in rhesus monkeys with no previous intake of xanthophylls.m birth to 7 to 16 years of age, 18 rhesus monkeys were fed semipurified diets containing all essential nutrients but no xanthophylls. Six were supplemented with pure L and 6 with pure Z at 3.9 micromol/kg per day for 24 to 101 weeks. At baseline and at 4- to 12-week intervals, carotenoids in adipose tissue were measured by HPLC. At study completion, carotenoids in serum and retina (central 4 mm, 8-mm annulus, and the periphery) were determined. Results were compared with data from control monkeys fed a standard laboratory diet.keys fed xanthophyll-free diets had no L or Z in serum or tissues. After L or Z supplementation, serum and adipose tissue concentrations significantly increased in the supplemented groups. Both L and 3R,3'S-Z (RSZ or meso-Z, not present in the diet) were incorporated into retinas of monkeys supplemented with L, with RSZ present only in the macula (central 4 mm). All-trans Z, but no RSZ, accumulated in retinas of monkeys supplemented with Z.s the precursor of RSZ, a major component of macular pigment. Xanthophyll-free monkeys can accumulate retinal xanthophylls and provide a valuable model for examining their uptake and conversion.
,   Nisin Z, a natural nisin variant, was recently isolated from Lactococcus lactis subspecies lactis NIZO 22186. The gene for this lantibiotic, designated nisZ, has been cloned, and its nucleotide sequence was found to be identical to that of the precursor nisin gene with the exception of a single mutation resulting in the substitution of Asn-27 for His-27 in the mature polypeptide (J. W. M. Mulders, I. J. Boerrigter, H. S. Rollema, R. J. Siezen, and W. M. de Vos, Eur. J. Biochem. 201:581-584, 1991). A K electrode was used to investigate the effect of various environmental parameters on the action of nisin Z against Listeria monocytogenes. Addition of nisin Z resulted in immediate loss of cell K, depolarization of the cytoplasmic membrane, inhibition of respiratory activity, and hydrolysis and partial efflux of cellular ATP. The action of nisin Z was optimal at pH 6.0 and was significantly reduced by di- and trivalent cations. The lanthanide gadolinium (Gd) was an efficient inhibitor and prevented nisin Z activity completely at a concentration of 0.2 mM. Nisin Z-induced loss of cell K was reduced at low temperatures, presumably as a result of the increased ordering of the lipid hydrocarbon chains in the cytoplasmic membrane. In cells grown at 30 degrees C, the action of nisin Z was prevented below 7 degrees C, whereas in cells grown at 4 degrees C nisin Z was able to induce K leakage at this low temperature.
,   In the nodulus and ventral uvula of pigeons, there are four parasagittal zones containing Purkinje cells responsive to patterns of optic flow that results from self-translation along a particular axis in three-dimensional space. By using a three-axis system to describe the preferred direction of translational optic flow, where +X, +Y, and +Z represent rightward, upward, and forward self-motion, respectively, the four cell types are: +Y, -Y, -X-Z, and -X+Z (assuming recording from the left side of the head). The -X-Z zone is the most medial, followed in sequence by the -X+Z, -Y zone, and the +Y zones. In this study, we injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B into each of the four translational zones to determine the origin of the climbing fiber inputs in the inferior olive. Retrograde labeling in the inferior olive was found in the ventrolateral margin of the medial column from injections into all four translational zones; however, there was a clear functional topography. Retrograde labeling from -Y zone injections was found most rostrally in the medial column, whereas retrogradely labeled cells from -X-Z zone injections were found most caudally in the medial column. Labeling from +Y and -X+Z zone injections were found between the labeling from -Y zones and -X-Z zones, with +Y labeling located slightly caudal to -X+Z labeling.
,   To investigate the nisin Z innocuity using normal human gingival fibroblast and epithelial cell cultures, and its synergistic effect with these gingival cells against Candida albicans adhesion and transition from blastospore to hyphal form.ls were cultured to 80% confluence and infected with C. albicans in the absence or presence of various concentrations of nisin Z. Our results indicate that only high concentrations of nisin Z promoted gingival cell detachment and differentiation. Determination of the LD(50) showed that the fibroblasts were able to tolerate up to 80 microg ml(-1) for 24 h, dropping thereafter to 62 mug ml(-1) after 72 h of contact, compared to 160 microg ml(-1) after 24 h, and 80 microg ml(-1) after 72 h recorded by the gingival epithelial cells which displayed a greater resistance to nisin Z. The use of nisin Z even at low concentration (25 microg ml(-1)) at appropriate concentrations with gingival cells significantly reduced C. albicans adhesion to gingival monolayer cultures and inhibited the yeast's transition.se findings show that when used at non-toxic levels for human cells, nisin Z can be effective against C. albicans adhesion and transition and may synergistically interact with gingival cells for an efficient resistance against C. albicans.s study suggests the potential usefulness of nisin Z as an antifungal agent, when used in an appropriate range.
,   Our interest in calculating the thermodynamic data by means of the Arrhenius equation was based on two observation: (a) the thermal death time increases considerably when the bioindicators Bacillus subtilis var. niger and Bacillus stearothermophilus are sterilized in nonaqueous hydrophilic solutions as found in propylene glycol (PG) with low water concentrations; and (b) the inactivation kinetics of Bac. stearothermophilus does not follow a first-order reaction. The frequency factor A and the entropy of activation delta S* have the highest values in water and the lowest value in PG; delta S* for Bac. stearothermophilus in water is 812 J/mol K; however, in PG it is -9.6 J/mol K. A good correlation between delta S* and the enthalpy delta H* is found, indicating possible protein denaturation during thermal inactivation. The moderate positive and negative delta S* values in PG and PG with low water concentrations might be explained by (a) rigid conformation of proteins due to stabilization and (b) slow reaction, making the complex a less probable structure, when the activated complex is built only under considerable rearrangement of the structure of the reactant molecules. The opposite was observed with the Z and Z* values, the latter being defined as Z values of nonlogarithmic survival curves. The Z values increase with increasing concentrations of PG, i.e., for Bac. subtilis of Z = 8 degrees C in water up to Z = 23 degrees C in PG and for Bac. stearothermophilus of Z = 6 degrees C up to Z* = 27 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   Subcutaneous administration of Z-100 twice a week starting immediately after supralethal whole-body irradiation of mice produced a prolongation of survival time. The effect of Z-100 on the hematopoietic system was thought to have contributed to the prolongation and was thus investigated. A single subcutaneous dose of Z-100 immediately after irradiation inhibited reduction of the total number of nucleated cells in the femoral bone marrow of the treated mice, although the inhibition was not by promotion of the proliferation of specific cells but by promotion of the recovery of multiple cell lines. Treatment with Z-100 promoted colony formation in the spleen of the treated mice and CFU-S formation in the femoral bone marrow, indicating that the drug accelerated the recovery of hematopoietic stem cells. The recovery of CFU-C count was also promoted by Z-100, which suggested that the drug has a restoring effect on the recovery of granulocytic and macrophagic precursor cells. Furthermore, Z-100 produced a greater increase in the CSF activity in the serum of irradiated mice, leading to the presumption that CSF induced by Z-100 was greatly involved in promoting the recovery of the above-mentioned hematopoietic stem cells. We conclude that Z-100 prolonged survival time of irradiated mice by promoting recovery of hematopoiesis of the mice.
,   Quantitative structures of the fully hydrated fluid phases of dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC) were obtained at 30 degrees C. Data for the relative form factors F(q(z)) for DMPC were obtained using a combination of four methods. 1), Volumetric data provided F(0). 2), Diffuse x-ray scattering from oriented stacks of bilayers provided relative form factors |F(q(z))| for high q(z), 0.22 < q(z) < 0.8 A(-1). 3), X-ray scattering from extruded unilamellar vesicles with diameter 600 A provided |F(q(z))| for low q(z), 0.1 < q(z) < 0.3 A(-1). 4), Previous measurements using a liquid crystallographic x-ray method provided |F(2 pi h/D)| for h = 1 and 2 for a range of nearly fully hydrated D-spacings. The data from method 4 overlap and validate the new unilamellar vesicles data for DMPC, so method 4 is not required for DLPC or future studies. We used hybrid electron density models to obtain structural results from these form factors. Comparison of the model electron density profiles with that of gel phase DMPC provides areas per lipid A, 60.6 +/- 0.5 A(2) for DMPC and 63.2 +/- 0.5 A(2) for DLPC. Constraints on the model provided by volume measurements and component volumes obtained from simulations put the electron density profiles rho(z) and the corresponding form factors F(q(z)) on absolute scales. Various thicknesses, such as the hydrophobic thickness and the steric thickness, are obtained and compared to literature values.
,   To assess hematologic and biochemical blood variables in growth-restricted fetuses and relate them to biophysical measurements.od was sampled from 22 growth-restricted fetuses. All had normal karyotypes and no congenital infections. Venous pH, partial pressure of oxygen, hematocrit, glucose, uric acid, urea, creatinine, total protein, total and direct bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, alkaline phosphatase, lactic dehydrogenase, amylase, pseudocholinesterase, creatinine kinase, triglycerides, and cholesterol were measured and compared with our reference range.rasound measurements of abdominal circumference correlated with fetal pH (r = 0.64), partial pressure of oxygen (r = 0.52), glucose (r = 0.67), total bilirubin (r = -0.54), lactic dehydrogenase (r = -0.48), and triglyceride levels (r = -0.65). Compared with fetuses with present end-diastolic velocities in the umbilical artery, the eight with absent end-diastolic velocities had lower pH (median z score -4.31), partial pressure of oxygen (median z score = -2.39), glucose (median z score = -2.01), and cholesterol (median z score = -2.34), and higher gamma-glutamyltransferase (median z score = 2.43), lactic dehydrogenase (median z score = 3.75), urea (median z score = 1.33), creatinine (median z score = 1.23), and triglyceride levels (median z score = 1.71). Only triglycerides correlated with abdominal circumference, independent of Doppler results.wth-restricted fetuses with absent end-diastolic velocities in the umbilical artery had more marked acidemia, hypoxemia, hypoglycemia, and abnormal liver function than those with end-diastolic velocities. Triglyceride levels were inversely related to fetal size independent of Doppler results. High triglyceride levels might reset fetal homeostatic mechanisms, leading to disturbances of lipid metabolism in later life.
,   We have identified and characterized a novel human cysteine proteinase of the papain family. A full-length cDNA for this enzyme was cloned from a human brain cDNA library. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that the isolated cDNA codes for a polypeptide of 303 amino acids, tentatively called cathepsin Z, that exhibits structural features characteristic of cysteine proteinases. Fluorescent in situ hybridization experiments revealed that the human cathepsin Z gene maps to chromosome 20q13, a location that differs from all cysteine proteinase genes mapped to date. The cDNA encoding cathepsin Z was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase, and after purification, the recombinant protein was able to degrade the synthetic peptide benzyloxycarbonyl-Phe-Arg-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin, used as a substrate for cysteine proteinases. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that cathepsin Z is widely expressed in human tissues, suggesting that this enzyme could be involved in the normal intracellular protein degradation taking place in all cell types. Cathepsin Z is also ubiquitously distributed in cancer cell lines and in primary tumors from different sources, suggesting that this enzyme may participate in tumor progression as reported for other cathepsins. Finally, on the basis of a series of distinctive structural features, including diverse peptide insertions and an unusual short propeptide, together with its unique chromosomal location among cysteine proteinases, we propose that cathepsin Z may be the first representative of a novel subfamily of this class of proteolytic enzymes.
,   Cinnamic acids are present in all kinds of plant tissues and hence in herbs and derived medicines, cosmetics and foods. The interest in their role in plants and their therapeutic applications has grown exponentially. Because of their molecular structure they can exist in E- and Z-forms, which are both found in plants. However, since only the E-forms are commercially available, very few in vitro and in vivo studies of the Z-form have been reported. In this work the physico-chemical properties of Z-cinnamic acids in solution have been examined by means of UV-absorption spectroscopy and high-level quantum mechanical computations. For each isomer similar absorption spectra were obtained in methanol and acetonitrile. However, distinct trends were found for Z- and E forms of cinnamic acids in water, where a higher hypsochromic shift of the Z-isomer relative to the E-form was observed. In general the wavelength of maximal absorption of the Z-form is dramatically blue shifted (-30 to -40nm) to λ<280nm, while a slightly blue shift of the absorption maxima for the corresponding E-form (+3 to -4nm) was observed. This difference is associated with the non-planar, largely distorted, Z-structure and to the almost complete flat structure of the E-form. The results provide a basis for the study of functional and biotechnological roles of cinnamic acids and for the analysis of samples containing mixture of both geometric isomers. 
,   Familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) is a common dyslipidemia predisposing to premature coronary heart disease (CHD). The disease is characterized by increased levels of serum total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TGs), or both. We recently localized the first locus for FCHL, on chromosome 1q21-q23. In the present study, a genomewide screen for additional FCHL loci was performed. In stage 1, we genotyped 368 polymorphic markers in 35 carefully characterized Finnish FCHL families. We identified six chromosomal regions with markers showing LOD score (Z) values >1.0, by using a dominant mode of inheritance for the FCHL trait. In addition, two more regions emerged showing Z>2.0 with a TG trait. In stage 2, we genotyped 26 more markers and seven additional FCHL families for these interesting regions. Two chromosomal regions revealed Z>2.0 in the linkage analysis: 10p11.2, Z=3.20 (theta=.00), with the TG trait; and 21q21, Z=2.24 (theta=.10), with the apoB trait. Furthermore, two more chromosomal regions produced Z>2.0 in the affected-sib-pair analysis: 10q11.2-10qter produced Z=2.59 with the TC trait and Z=2.29 with FCHL, and 2q31 produced Z=2.25 with the TG trait. Our results suggest additional putative loci influencing FCHL in Finnish families, some potentially affecting TG levels and some potentially affecting TC or apoB levels.
,   Understanding the molecular interactions among components of cardiac Z-discs and their role in signaling has become pivotal in explaining long- and short-term regulation of cardiac function. In striated muscle, the ends of the thin filaments from opposing sarcomeres overlap and are cross-linked by an elaborate array of proteins to form a highly ordered, yet dynamic network that is the Z-disc. We review here a current picture of the function and structure of the Z-disc of mammalian cardiac myocytes. We emphasize provocative findings that advance new theories about the place of cardiac Z-discs in myocardial intra- and intercellular signaling in myocardial physiology and pathology. Relatively new approaches, especially yeast two-hybrid screens, immunoprecipitation, and pull down assays, as well as immunohistochemical analysis have significantly altered previous views of the protein content of the Z-disc. These studies have generally defined domain structure and binding partners for Z-disc proteins, but the functional significance of the binding network and of the domains in cardiac cell biology remains an unfolding story. Yet, even at the present level of understanding, perceptions of potential functions of the Z-disc proteins are expanding greatly and leading to new and exciting experimental approaches toward mechanistic understanding. The theme of the following discussion of these Z-disc proteins centers on their potential to function not only as a physical anchor for myofilament and cytoskeletal proteins, but also as a pivot for reception, transduction, and transmission of mechanical and biochemical signals.
,   Single-cell electrophysiological recordings were obtained from olfactory receptor neurons in sensilla trichodea on male antennae of the heliothine species Heliothis subflexa and the closely related congener H. virescens. A large percentage of sensilla (72% and 81%, respectively, of all sensilla sampled) contained a single odor-responsive receptor neuron tuned to the major pheromone component of both species, Z-11-hexadecenal. A second population of sensilla on H. subflexa antennae (18%) housed receptor neurons that were tuned to Z-9-hexadecenal but also responded with less sensitivity to Z-9-tetradecenal. A similar population of sensilla (4%) on H. virescens male antennae housed receptor neurons that were shown to be tuned specifically only to Z-9-tetradecenal, with no response to even high dosages of Z-9-hexadecenal. A third population of sensilla (comprising 8% and 16% of the sensilla sampled in H. subflexa and H. virescens, respectively) housed two olfactory receptor neurons, one of which was tuned to Z-11-hexadecenyl acetate and the other tuned to Z-11-hexadecenol. In H. subflexa the Z-11-hexadecenyl acetate-tuned neuron also responded to Z-9-tetradecenal with nearly equivalent sensitivity. The behavioral requirements of males of these two species for distinct pheromonal blends was, therefore, reflected by the subtle differences in the tuning properties of antennal olfactory receptor neurons.
,   To investigate the interchangeability of measures of disability and health-related quality of life (HRQL) by comparing their associations patterns with disease-related impairment measures in patients with a variety of conditions.ystematic literature search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science and a hand search of reference lists through January 2006. Studies were included if they reported associations patterns between impairment and disability and between impairment and HRQL. Correlation coefficients were transformed to Fisher's z effect size (ES(z)). Weighted averages were reported as pooled ES(z) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). relationship between impairment and disability was stronger (pooled ES(z) = 0.69; 95% CI, 0.66-0.72) than between impairment and HRQL (pooled ES(z) = 0.38; 95% CI, 0.36-0.41). The physical component score (pooled ES(z) = 0.43; 95% CI, 0.39-0.47) and disease-specific HRQL (pooled ES(z) = 0.46; 95% CI, 0.40-0.51) were stronger associated with impairments than the mental component score (pooled ES(z) = 0.28; 95% CI, 0.20-0.36) and generic HRQL (pooled ES(z) = 0.36; 95% CI, 0.33-0.39).s study shows measures of disability and different HRQL domains were not equally related to impairment. Patient's impairments are better reflected in disability measures, than in HRQL instruments. There are many outcomes of interest and precisely defining them and measuring them will improve assessing the impact of new interventions.
,   Ten oligonucleotides of the length 8-12 base pairs have been synthesized, which contain, in addition to the obligatory sequences CG/CG, sequences not favorable for the transition to the Z conformation (A.T pairs, GG/CC or AA/TT sequences). Conformational transitions of these oligonucleotides in high concentrations of NaClO4 in the absence and in the presence of Ni2+ were investigated using CD spectroscopy. The B-Z transition is affected by the length and sequence of the oligonucleotide. Increasing the NaClO4 concentration alone the transition of only one of the oligonucleotides studied. (CGCGCGTGCACGCGCG)2, can be induced. Other oligonucleotides remain in the B conformation or only partial transition to the Z conformation can be observed. Most other oligonucleotides can be converted into the Z conformation at intermediate concentrations of NaClO4 (2.0-3.2 M) by an addition of Ni2+ ions. In some cases, however, Ni2+ can destabilize the double stranded structure of the sample. We have studied the effect of the presence of A.T pairs in the G.C containing oligonucleotides and the effect of the presence of pu-pu/pyr-pyr sequences. The presence of the latter sequences in the Z form implicates the formation of a Z-Z'junction which makes the transition quite difficult. Despite the fact that some oligonucleotides contained several structural elements not favorable for the transition, we did not find any sequence which would completely block the ability of the oligonucleotide to adopt the Z conformation.
,   The mechanism by which the hydrophobic peptide Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly inhibits membrane fusion was investigated. Differential scanning calorimetry, 2H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), and 13C NMR of phosphatidylcholine bilayers in the presence of Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly indicate that this hydrophobic peptide penetrates the phospholipid bilayer but does not strongly perturb the properties of phosphatidylcholine bilayers with a large effective radius of curvature. However, Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly does affect the properties of highly curved phosphatidylcholine bilayers. Small, sonicated vesicles (SUV) of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) were made in the presence and absence of Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly. At pH 4.5, the presence of Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly inhibited the formation of SUV. At pH 6.7 and 7.4, SUV could form. Once sonication ceased and the vesicles were incubated at 23 degrees C, modest growth in vesicle size occurred for pure DPPC SUV. Rapid change to large sheetlike structures occurred in the presence of Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly. Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly appeared to favor the formation of phospholipid structures with large radii of curvature. In these experiments, Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly had access to both sides of the bilayer. If Z-D-Phe-L-PheGly was added to preformed DPPC SUV (and thus present initially only in the outer leaflet of the vesicle bilayer) and incubated at 23 degrees C, only modest growth in vesicle size was observed with little difference from control values at short to intermediate incubation times.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   G(z) is a member of the G(i) family of trimeric G proteins whose primary role in cell physiology is still unknown. In an ongoing effort to elucidate the cellular functions of G(z), the yeast two-hybrid system was employed to identify proteins that specifically interact with a mutationally activated form of Galpha(z). One of the molecules uncovered in this screen was Rap1GAP, a previously identified protein that specifically stimulates GTP hydrolytic activity of the monomeric G protein Rap1 and thus is believed to function as a down-regulator of Rap1 signaling. Like G(z), the precise role of Rap1 in cell physiology is poorly understood. Biochemical analysis using purified recombinant proteins revealed that the physical interaction between Galpha(z) and Rap1GAP blocks the ability of RGSs (regulators of G protein signaling) to stimulate GTP hydrolysis of the alpha subunit, and also attenuates the ability of activated Galpha(z) to inhibit adenylyl cyclase. Structure-function analyses indicate that the first 74 amino-terminal residues of Rap1GAP, a region distinct from the catalytic core domain responsible for the GAP activity toward Rap1, is required for this interaction. Co-precipitation assays revealed that Galpha(z), Rap1GAP, and Rap1 can form a stable complex. These data suggest that Rap1GAP acts as a signal integrator to somehow coordinate and/or integrate G(z) signaling and Rap1 signaling in cells.
,   A plasmid vector was constructed for the expression of a single chain Fv domain of mouse mAb to Z-DNA (antibody Z22), which is encoded by VH10 and V kappa 10 gene family members along with Dsp2, JH4, and J kappa 4 segments. The vector coded for a PhoA secretion signal, VH segment, flexible peptide linker, VL segment, (His)5, and a protein A domain. Unique restriction sites allowed exchange of the segments as cassettes. Bacteria transformed with the vector secreted soluble recombinant Fv with specific Z-DNA-binding activity. When the L chain of Z22 was replaced with a library of splenic VL cDNA from a mouse immunized with Z-DNA, only a light chain closely resembling that of the original Z22 (differing at six amino acid positions) yielded Fv with Z-DNA-binding activity. The Fv with this L chain replacement had a lowered affinity, but remained selective for Z-DNA. Replacement of the Z22 H chain with a mixture of 11 VH10-encoded H chains yielded two Z-DNA binding clones, but they bound B-DNA and denatured DNA as well as Z-DNA. The replacement clones indicate the importance of the H chain CDR3 and particular VH-VL combinations in formation of specific antibodies to Z-DNA.
,   A major feature of the structure of alpha 1-antitrypsin is a five-stranded A-sheet into which the reactive center loop inserts after cleavage. We describe here the effect of the Z mutation (342Glu to Lys) at the head of the fifth strand of the A-sheet on the mobility of the reactive center loop and hence on the physical properties of the antitrypsin molecule. The mutant Z but not the normal M antitrypsin spontaneously polymerizes at 37 degrees C by a mechanism involving the insertion of the reactive center loop of one molecule into the A-sheet of a second. It is demonstrated that Z antitrypsin polymerized after incubation with 1.0 M guanidinium chloride at 37 degrees C at the same rate as M antitrypsin. Reducing the temperature to 4 degrees C favored the formation of the L-state in M antitrypsin in which the loop is stably incorporated into the A-sheet, but resulted in loop-sheet polymerization in Z antitrypsin. Z, like M antitrypsin, undergoes the S to R transition, but we show that the accompanying change in thermal stability results from loop-sheet polymerization (S) which can be prevented by the insertion of the cleaved strand of the reactive center loop into the A-sheet (R). Z antitrypsin has a reduced association rate constant with neutrophil elastase [(5.3 +/- 0.06) x 10(7) and (1.2 +/- 0.02) x 10(7) M-1 s-1 for M and Z, respectively], but both M and Z antitrypsin had Ki values of less than 5 pM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   Given a predictive model for identifying very likely benign breast lesions on the basis of Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) mammographic findings, this study evaluated the model's ability to generalize to a patient data set from a different institution. artificial neural network model underwent three trials: it was optimized over 500 biopsy-proven lesions from Duke University Medical Center or "Duke," evaluated on 1,000 similar cases from the University of Pennsylvania Health System or "Penn," and reoptimized for Penn.al A's Duke-only model yielded 98% sensitivity, 36% specificity, area index (A(z)) of 0.86, and partial A(z) of 0.51. The cross-institutional trial B yielded 96% sensitivity, 28% specificity, A(z) of 0.79, and partial A(z) of 0.28. The decreases were significant for both A(z) (p = 0.017) and partial A(z) (p < 0.001). In trial C, the model reoptimized for the Penn data yielded 96% sensitivity, 35% specificity, A(z) of 0.83, and partial A(z) of 0.32. There were no significant differences compared with trial B for specificity (p = 0.44) or partial A(z) (p = 0.46), suggesting that the Penn data were inherently more difficult to characterize. BI-RADS lexicon facilitated the cross-institutional test of a breast cancer prediction model. The model generalized reasonably well, but there were significant performance decreases. The cross-institutional performance was encouraging because it was not significantly different from that of a reoptimized model using the second data set at high sensitivities. This study indicates the need for further work to collect more data and to improve the robustness of the model.
,   The aim of the study was to examine the relationships between nutritional status and diarrhoea and respiratory infections.spective cohort study within the framework of a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled intervention trial.rural communities in the Khartoum and Gezira regions, in Northern Sudan.753 Sudanese pre-school children between 6 months and 6 y old.ative risks of subsequent diarrhoea and respiratory infections in relation to nutritional status measured by anthropometry (Z-scores of height-for-age (H/A), weight-for-height (W/H), and weight-for-age (W/A), which reflect stunting, wasting and underweight, respectively) were estimated using odds ratios from logistic regression adjusting for various covariates., W/H and W/A were significantly and inversely associated with subsequent diarrhoea and febrile diarrhoea (P for trend <0.001) with risks being 2.00 times higher (95% confidence interval, CI (1.64, 2.43)) among children with W/A Z-scores below -4 Z, and 1.75 times higher (95% CI (1.56, 1.96)) among those with a W/A Z-score between -4 and -3 Z compared with children having a W/A Z-score > or =1. Age, gender, region of residence and seasonality modified these associations. Also, febrile cough was inversely associated with W/A and W/H (P<0.03), with risks ranging from 1.41 times higher (95% CI (1.02, 1.97)) to 1.21 times higher (95% CI (1.04, 1.41)) in the group of underweight children with W/A Z-scores below -4 and between -2 and -1 Z, all compared with normally nourished children (> or =-1 Z). reduction of severe but also mild and moderate undernutrition is necessary through nutrition, health and socio-economic improvement in order to prevent morbidity.
,   Analysis of ovipositor washings from virgin femaleHelicoverpa assulta (Guenée) (Lepidoptere: Noctuidae) from Korea by gas chromatography (GC) linked to electroantennography and GC linked to mass spectrometry resulted in the identification of nine compounds, hexadecanal, (Z)-9-hexadecenal, (Z)-11-hexadecenal, hexadecyl acetate, (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate, (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate, hexadecan-l-ol, (Z)-9-hexadecen-l-ol, and (Z)-11-hexadecen-1-ol. However, ovipositor washings from females from Thailand contained mainly the 16-carbon aldehydes with very small amounts of (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate. Field tests conducted in Korea, China, and Thailand indicated that a binary blend of (Z)-9-hexadecenal and (Z)-11-hexadecenal was sufficient for attraction, although the most attractive ratio of compounds varied with location. In Korea a 20∶1 blend of compounds was the most attractive, while in Thailand a 7.5∶1 blend was most attractive. In China both blends of hexadecenal isomers were equally attractive. Addition of the hexadecenyl acetates to the 20∶1 blend of hexadecenals in the ratio of 1∶3.3 increased the trap catch of maleH. assulta compared to lures containing the aldehydes alone in Korea but reduced trap catch in China. Addition of the hexadecenyl acetates to the 7.5∶1 blend of hexadecenals had no significant effect on trap catch in Thailand or China compared to the aldehydes alone. The addition of the 16-carbon alcohols to the aldehydes had a significantly inhibitory effect in all three countries, suggesting they are not pheromone components. Taken together these results indicate thatH. assulta is polymorphic with at least two populations responding to different sex pheromones. 
,   We studied the distribution of the giant sarcomeric protein obscurin during de novo myofibrillogenesis in C(2)C(12) myotubes to learn when it is integrated into developing sarcomeres. Obscurin becomes organized first at the developing M band and later at the mature Z disk. Primordial M bands consisting of obscurin, myomesin, and M band epitopes of titin assemble before adult fast-twitch sarcomeric myosin is organized periodically and nearly concurrently with primitive Z disks, which are composed of alpha-actinin and Z disk epitopes of titin. Z disks and M bands can assemble independently at spatially distant sites. As sarcomerogenesis proceeds, these structures interdigitate to produce a more mature organization. Fast-twitch muscle myosin accumulates in the myoplasm and assembles into A bands only after Z disks and M bands assume their typical interdigitated striations. The periodicities of M bands remain constant at approximately 1.8 microm throughout sarcomerogenesis, whereas distances between Z disks increase from approximately 1.1 microm in early sarcomeres to approximately 1.8 microm in more mature structures. Our findings indicate for the first time that primitive M bands self-assemble independently of Z disks, that obscurin is a component of these primitive M bands in skeletal muscle cells, and that A bands assemble only after M bands and Z disks integrate into maturing sarcomeres.
,   The forward-reverse or FR method is an efficient bidirectional work method for determining the potential of mean force w(z) and also supposedly gives in principle the position-dependent diffusion coefficient D(z). Results from a variation called the OFR (oscillating FR) method suggest inconsistencies in the D(z) values when calculated as prescribed by the FR method. A new steering protocol has thus been developed and applied to the OFR method for the accurate determination of D(z) and also provides greater convergence for w(z) in molecular dynamics simulations. The bulk diffusion coefficient for water was found to be (6.03±0.16)×10(-5) cm2/s at 350 K with system size dependence within the statistical error bars. Using this steering protocol, D(z) and w(z) for water permeating a dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) bilayer were determined. The potential of mean force is shown to have a barrier of peak height, wmax/(kBT)=8.4, with a width of about 10 Å on either side from the membrane center. The diffusion constant is shown to be highest in the core region of the membrane [peak value ∼(8.0±0.8)×10(-5) cm2/s], lowest in the head-group region [minimum value ∼(2.0±0.3)×10(-5) cm2/s], and to tend toward the bulk value as the water molecule leaves the membrane. The permeability coefficient P for H2O in DPPC was determined using the simulated D(z) and w(z) to give values of (0.129±0.075) cm/s at 323 K and (0.141±0.043) cm/s at 350 K. The results show more spatial detail than results presented in previous work while reducing the computational and user effort.
,   Theory predicts that sexually antagonistic mutations will be over- or under-represented on the X and Z chromosomes, depending on their average dominance coefficients. However, as little is known about the dominance coefficients for new mutations, the effect of sexually antagonistic selection is difficult to predict. To elucidate the role of sexually antagonistic selection in the evolution of Z chromosome gene content in chicken, we analyzed publicly available microarray data from several somatic tissues as well as somatic and germ cells of the ovary. We found that the Z chromosome is enriched for genes showing preferential expression in ovarian somatic cells, but not for genes with preferential expression in primary oocytes or non-sex-specific somatic tissues. Our results suggest that sexual antagonism leads to a higher abundance of female-benefit alleles on the Z chromosome. No bias toward Z-linkage for oocyte-enriched genes can be explained by lower intensity of sexually antagonistic selection in ovarian germ cells compared to ovarian somatic cells. An alternative explanation would be that meiotic Z chromosome inactivation hinders accumulation of oocyte-expressed genes on the Z chromosome. Our results are consistent with findings in mammals and indicate that recessive rather than dominant sexually antagonistic mutations shape the gene content of the X and Z chromosomes.
,   The glnB and glnZ genes of A. brasilense have 70% homology at nucleotide sequence. glnB is located in a 3.7 kb Eco RI+ PstI fragment and glnZ is located in a 3.7 kb SalI fragment. Both glnB and glnZ genes were mutagenized by Kmr cassette insertions and glnB- and glnZ- mutants were obtained. glnB- mutant did not have any nitrogenase activity, while glnZ- mutant still has nitrogenase activity. The coding regions of glnB and glnZ were cloned into pVK100 vectors and recombinant plasmids pVK-II and pVK-Z were obtained, respectively. The recombinant plasmids pVK-II and pVK-Z were introduced into glnB- and glnZ- to produce C-glnB and C-glnZ, respectively. C-glnB can restore nitrogenase activity and C-glnZ does not have effect on nitrogenase activity. When pVK-II and pVK-Z were introduced into A. brasilense Yu62 and draT-, respectively, the Yu62-II (containing pVK-II) and draT-II (containing pVK-II) have higher nitrogenase activity than that of wild type Yu62. In contrast, Yu62-Z (containing pVK-Z) and draT-Z (containing pVK-Z) has no effect on nitrogenase activity. The nifA(-)-II (containg pVK-II) and nifA(-)-Z (containing pVK-Z) still have no nitrogenase activity.
,   We have described an exonuclease III/photoreversal procedure to map, with base pair resolution, the bases which have photoreacted with 4,5',8-trimethylpsoralen (Me3-psoralen) forming either monoadducts or interstrand cross-links in DNA (20). This assay allows quantitation of relative rates of Me3-psoralen photobinding to bases in DNA at levels as low as one cross-link per 8,000 base pairs. This assay should be useful for a wide variety of applications of Me3-psoralen photobinding to DNA. Here, we demonstrate the applicability of the Me3-psoralen exo III assay for analysis of the conformation of the Z forming sequences (GT)12ATGT and GAATTC(TG)6TA(TG)6. We have shown previously that Me3-psoralen forms crosslinks in the 5'TA within the (CG)6TA(CG)6 sequence when it exists in the B conformation but not when it exists in the Z conformation (34). More recently we have confirmed this result with the exo III assay and have shown at least a hundred fold increase in Me3-psoralen photoreactivity at the 5'AT sequence within the EcoR I sites (GAATTC) which presumably represent B-Z junctions flanking (CG)6TA(CG)6 (20). Here we demonstrate both the characteristic decrease in psoralen photobinding to 5'TAs within (GT)12ATGT and (TG)6TA(TG)6 and the hyperreactivity of B-Z junctions. These characteristic properties of Me3-psoralen photobinding provide an assay for Z-DNA that is applicable in vivo. The general applicability of this approach for assaying Z-DNA in vivo is discussed.
,   A strategy for rapid generation of chicken sex chromosome-Z painting probes has been developed using microdissection. Whole chromosome painting probes (WCPs) were prepared from 10-15 copies of mitotic metaphase chicken Z chromosomes. The microisolated chromosomes were subjected to PEG/proteinase K treatment in a collection drop to release DNA, which was then amplified using a degenerate oligonucleotide-primed shuttle PCR (DOP-Shuttle-PCR) strategy. Size distributions of the PCR products were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis and smears of DNA were revealed that ranged in size from 200-800 bp, without any evidence of preferential amplification. Both specificity and complexity of the probes have been analyzed by Southern blot and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Non-specific hybridization was efficiently blocked by using chicken competitor DNA. Analysis of the WCPs produced shows that collectively they provide uniform hybridization signals along the entire length of the chicken Z chromosome. To demonstrate one possible application of these complex probes, we screened a large-insert bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) chicken genomic library to select Z chromosome-specific clones. To address specificity of the selected clones and to physically map them to the Z chromosome, FISH analysis was used. Of the 3 clones initially tested, one clone (C3) carrying a 250-kb insert mapped to the distal portion of the short arm of the chicken Z chromosome. Therefore, this technique has provided appropriate probes for screening large-insert genomic libraries. Further application of these probes includes the analysis of chromosome rearrangements, studies of cases of heteroploidy involving the Z chromosome, positional cloning of Z-linked genes and studies on mechanisms of sex-chromosome evolution in birds.
,   We investigated the mechanism of the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk's augmentation of TNFalpha-induced L929 cell death and found this mechanism differs from that of TNFalpha-induced L929 cell death. In the presence of 20 ng/ml TNFalpha, z-VAD-fmk initiated apoptosis and necrosis in the majority of L929 cells as measured by an agarose gel electrophoresis and lactate dehydrogenase(LDH)activity based assay. Mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) inhibitor (cyclosporine A) effectively inhibited z-VAD-fmk-augmented cell death. In addition, z-VAD-fmk plus TNFalpha increased Bax expression without affecting Bcl-2 and cytochrome expression. Western-blot analysis showed that z-VAD-fmk plus TNFalpha caused persistent JNK activation and ERK inactivation. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor (DPQ) effectively reversed the cell death which was augmented by z-VAD-fmk, and z-VAD-fmk plus TNFalpha also caused PARP cleavage to an 85 KDa fragment. These results indicate that in the presence of TNFalpha, z-VAD-fmk further augments cell death which requires the mitochondrial permeability transition and the JNK activation. However, we did not detect the changes in cytochrome c expression and the participation of caspase-9 in this process, suggesting that there might exist an unknown signal pathway(s) from the mitochondria to the downstream protein PARP, which is cleaved in a caspase-independent manner.
,   The speciation of pathogens can be driven by divergent host specialization. Specialization to a new host is possible via the acquisition of advantageous mutations fixed by positive selection. Comparative genome analyses of closely related species allows for the identification of such key substitutions via inference of genome-wide signatures of positive selection. We previously used a comparative genomics framework to identify genes that have evolved under positive selection during speciation of the prominent wheat pathogen Zymoseptoria tritici (synonym Mycosphaerella graminicola). In this study, we conducted functional analyses of four genes exhibiting strong signatures of positive selection in Z. tritici. We deleted the four genes in Z. tritici and confirm a virulence-related role of three of the four genes ΔZt80707, ΔZt89160 and ΔZt103264. The two mutants ΔZt80707 and ΔZt103264 show a significant reduction in virulence during infection of wheat; the ΔZt89160 mutant causes a hypervirulent phenotype in wheat. Mutant phenotypes of ΔZt80707, ΔZt89160 and ΔZt103264 can be restored by insertion of the wild-type genes. However, the insertion of the Zt80707 and Zt89160 orthologs from Z. pseudotritici and Z. ardabiliae do not restore wild-type levels of virulence, suggesting that positively selected substitutions in Z. tritici may relate to divergent host specialization. Interestingly, the gene Zt80707 encodes also a secretion signal that targets the protein for cell secretion. This secretion signal is however only transcribed in Z. tritici, suggesting that Z. tritici-specific substitutions relate to a new function of the protein in the extracellular space of the wheat-Z. tritici interaction. Together, the results presented here highlight that Zt80707, Zt103264 and Zt89160 represent key genes involved in virulence and host-specific disease development of Z. tritici. Our findings illustrate that evolutionary predictions provide a powerful tool for the identification of novel traits crucial for host adaptation and pathogen evolution. 
,   We assessed the diagnostic performance of z-scores to define a significant delta cardiac troponin (cTn) in a cohort of patients with well-defined clinical outcomes.calculated z-scores, which are dependent on the analytical precision and biological variation, to report changes in cTn. We compared the diagnostic performances of a relative delta (%Δ), actual delta (Δ), and z-scores in 762 emergency department patients with symptoms of suspected acute coronary syndrome. cTn was measured with sensitive cTnI (Beckman Coulter), highly sensitive cTnI (Abbott), and highly sensitive cTnT (Roche) assays.eiver operating characteristic analysis showed no statistically significant differences in the areas under the curve (AUC) of z-scores and Δ with both superior compared to %Δ for all three assays (p<0.001). The AUCs of z-scores measured with the Abbott hs-cTnI (0.955) and Roche hs-cTnT (0.922) assays were comparable to Beckman Coulter cTnI (0.933) (p=0.272 and 0.640, respectively). The individualized Δ cut-off values that were required to emulate a z-score of 1.96 were: Beckman Coulter cTnI 30 ng/l, Abbott hs-cTnI 20 ng/l, and Roche hs-cTnT 7 ng/l.cores allow the use of a single cut-off value at all cTn levels, for both cTnI and cTnT and for sensitive and highly sensitive assays, with comparable diagnostic performances. This strategy of reporting significant changes as z-scores may obviate the need for the empirical development of assay-specific cut-off rules to define significant troponin changes.
,   Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH), is an environmental contaminant that can induce cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) upregulation via aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) activation and provoke inflammation. Here, we investigated the effect of Z-Ligustilide, an active ingredient isolated from the medicinal plants Cnidium officinale and Angelica acutiloba, on BaP-induced CYP1A1 upregulation in normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs) as well as its underlying mechanisms. Z-Ligustilide significantly inhibited BaP-induced CYP1A1 upregulation in NHEKs. Treatment of NHEKs with Z-Ligustilide induced Nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) nuclear translocation and expression of the Nrf2-regulated genes for haeme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) andnine oxidoreductase-1 (NQO1). AhR silencing, SB203580 (a p38 inhibitor), SP600125 (a JNK inhibitor), U0126 (a MEK inhibitor) and LY294002 (a PI3K inhibitor) did not suppress Z-Ligustilide-induced Nrf2 activation. Moreover, treatment of NHEKs with Z-Ligustilide increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and L-N-acetylcysteine (L-NAC, an antioxidant) attenuated Z-ligustilide-induced Nrf2 nuclear translocation and HO-1 expression. L-NAC or knock-down of Nrf2 significantly attenuated the inhibitory effects of Z-Ligustilide on BaP-induced CYP1A1 upregulation in NHEKs. Taken together, these findings suggest that Z-Ligustilide can suppress BaP-induced CYP1A1 upregulation through ROS-dependent Nrf2 pathway activation and may be beneficial in preventing or treating BaP-induced skin damage.
,   The effects of the first-row transition metal ions on the right(B)- to left(Z)-handed helical transition of poly[d(G-C)] have been determined. The Z conformation is induced by MnCl2 at submillimolar concentrations. The forward reaction has a very large activation energy (440 kJ/mol) so that a facile conversion occurs only at temperatures above 45 degrees C. However, the left-handed form remains stable upon cooling. The addition of ethanol (20% v/v) eliminates the requirement for elevated temperature. The transition is highly co-operative and is accompanied by spectral changes (absorption, circular dichroism) characteristic for the B----Z conformational transition. NiCl2 and CoCl2 also induce the B----Z transition in poly[d(G-C)] but the activation energies and thus the temperature requirements for the forward reaction are lower than those observed with MnCl2. The left-handed DNA formed in the presence of Mn2+ is similar to 'Z DNA' previously described in Mg2+-EtOH (van de Sande and Jovin , 1982): (a) it readily sediments out of solution at low speed as a consequence of intermolecular association which, however, is not accompanied by turbidity; and (b) it supports the binding of ethidium bromide although this drug interacts preferentially with the B form of DNA. With Ni2+, the B----Z isomerization step can be separated from the subsequent specific Z----Z* association. Mn2+, Ni2+, and Co2+ also promote the B----Z transition of poly[d(G-m5C)] at substoichiometric concentrations with respect to DNA nucleotide.
,   The androgen receptor (AR) is a main therapeutic target for treatment of prostate cancer (PCa). The natural compound isochaihulactone (K8), which has a chiral center ring and two racemic forms (E-K8 and Z-K8), has anti-tumor effects on multiple cancer types both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we determined which form of K8 contains significant tumor cytotoxicity and examined how this form regulates AR expression in PCa cells and xenografts.chose the androgen-dependent human PCa cell line LNCaP and the androgen-independent cell lines DU145 and PC-3 to study the anti-tumor potency and AR regulation mediated by Z-K8. We measured cell viability and used flow cytometry, RT-PCR, and Western blotting. Growth inhibition in vivo was evaluated with an LNCaP xenograft animal model.LNCaP cells, Z-K8 significantly repressed cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, repressed AR mRNA and protein expression in a time-dependent manner, and induced JNK phosphorylation. Furthermore, treatment with a JNK inhibitor significantly abolished Z-K8-induced AR downregulation. Z-K8 did not significantly inhibit reporter gene expression of constructs containing the AR promoter when it contained a mutated Sp1 binding site. Z-K8 also showed anti-tumor effects in the xenograft animal model.8 not only induced LNCaP apoptosis but also reduced AR expression. These results indicate that Z-K8 may be a potential anti-tumor drug for PCa therapy.
,   Because many patients in usual care reach the diabetes treatment goals, it may be more efficacious to focus quality improvement efforts on those general practice populations requiring additional support. We therefore developed a tool based on a composite end point considering blood pressure, lipids, and glycaemia.created an aggregated z(A)-score, calculated as the average of 3 z-scores testing whether the mean practice values of hemoglobin A1c, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and systolic blood pressure are significantly higher than the corresponding ADA-target (respectively 7%, 100 mg/dL, and 130 mm Hg). This score was used with 100 general practitioners who participated in a Quality Improvement Program. We defined the cut-off value (COV) to determine "Practices Requiring Support" (z(A) <COV) using a receiver's operating characteristics curve with the mean practice CHD risk as gold standard. To further test the z-score validity, we calculated the correlation coefficient between the z-score and the mean practice CHD risk and the improvement in the z-score after the Quality Improvement Program. COV was -1.22 and was valid to discriminate between practices at higher risk from practices at lower CHD risk (24% +/- 4% vs. 19% +/- 4%). The correlation coefficient was -0.515 (P = 0.001). The average z-score increased from -1.21 +/- 0.97 at baseline to 0.49 +/- 1.01 after the intervention (P < 0.001).s scoring system is useful to picture practice populations with diabetes who are at high cardiovascular risk because of modifiable risk factors. Although the unadjusted z-score cannot be used to compare physicians, this technique can be used to evaluate improvement efforts over time.
,   We have carried out molecular dynamics/free energy perturbation calculations on the double helical hexamer d(CGCGCG)2 in both B and Z forms. The third C.G base pair was "mutated" to T-A in both B and Z-DNA. It is known experimentally that replacement of a C.G with a T-A base pair in an alternating CG sequence raises the energy of the Z form relative to the B form by approximately 1 kcal mole-1. We have carried out free energy component calculations to assess the reason for the "Z-phobicity" of T-A base pairs. There are two major contributions. The primary contribution is from the intra-base pair interactions of the mutated base pair itself which disfavor T-A relative to C.G in the Z form by congruent to 1.4 kcal mole-1. A secondary contribution of 0.4 kcal mole-1 arises because the two cytosines on the strand where G is mutated to A disfavor T-A relative to C.G in the Z form by 1.9 kcal mole-1, while the guanines flanking the C on the complementary strand stabilize the T-A base pair relative to the C.G in the Z form by 1.5 kcal mole-1. The effect of the phosphates, non-neighboring nucleotides and intramolecular energies of the base pair being mutated are all small and come close to canceling each other, leading to a net calculated free energy for T-A Z-phobicity of 1.7 kcal mole-1.
,   Mixtures of (Z)-9-alkenes (C21-C33),n-alkanes (C21-C33), and mono- and dimethylalkanes (C27, C29), as components of the cuticular lipids washed from the female housefly (Musca domestica L.), were synthesized and assayed for their biological activity on male houseflies. The (Z)-9-alkenes and their hydrogenatedn-alkanes were synthesized from jojoba wax components by the appropriate chain elongation. The methylalkanes were prepared by Grignard coupling reaction of the appropriate alkyl halides, catalyzed by Li2CuCl4. Six- to 7-day-old virgin male houseflies exhibited the highest mating strike activity toward 6- to 7-day-old virgin females. The mating strike activity of the synthetic hydrocarbons was studied by exposing 6- to 7-day old virgin males to petrol-ether-rinsed 1 to 2-day-old dead females treated with these chemicals. (Z)-9-Tricosene was the most active hydrocarbon tested when it was applied in amounts of 10 μg to a washed dead female. Amounts of 5 μg of (Z)-9-tricosene did not cause sexual activity in the males. Mixture of (Z)-9-alkenes showed low activity when applied at 10-μg amounts. However, when mixtures were made of 5 μg of (Z)-9-tricosene with 5 fig of each of certain mixtures of (Z)-9-alkenes, the striking activity became as high as that of 10 μg of (Z)-9-tricosene. This might be a synergism effect. The mixtures ofn-alkanes, as well as the mono- and dimethylalkanes, showed moderate activity. When (Z)-9-tricosene was added to these materials no increase in male activity was observed. 
,   A long form (tRNase Z(L)) of tRNA 3' processing endoribonuclease (tRNase Z, or 3' tRNase) can cleave any target RNA at any desired site under the direction of artificial small guide RNA (sgRNA) that mimics a 5'-half portion of tRNA. Based on this enzymatic property, a gene silencing technology has been developed, in which a specific mRNA level can be downregulated by introducing into cells a synthetic 5'-half-tRNA that is designed to form a pre-tRNA-like complex with a part of the mRNA. Recently 5'-half-tRNA fragments have been reported to exist stably in various types of cells, although little is know about their physiological roles. We were curious to know if endogenous 5'-half-tRNA works as sgRNA for tRNase Z(L) in the cells. Here we show that human cytosolic tRNase Z(L) modulates gene expression through 5'-half-tRNA. We found that 5'-half-tRNA(Glu), which co-immunoprecipitates with tRNase Z(L), exists predominantly in the cytoplasm, functions as sgRNA in vitro, and downregulates the level of a luciferase mRNA containing its target sequence in human kidney 293 cells. We also demonstrated that the PPM1F mRNA is one of the genuine targets of tRNase Z(L) guided by 5'-half-tRNA(Glu). Furthermore, the DNA microarray data suggested that tRNase Z(L) is likely to be involved in the p53 signaling pathway and apoptosis.
,   Ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) from higher plants consists of eight approximately 53-kDa large subunits and eight approximately 14-kDa small subunits. Cytosolic ribosomes synthesize the small subunits as precursors, which enter the chloroplast, undergo proteolytic processing, and assemble with large subunits. Large subunits, synthesized in the chloroplast, first form a complex with the chloroplast chaperonin 60 (Cpn60(14)). In the presence of ATP, large subunits dissociate from Cpn60(14) and assemble into Rubisco. We now describe partial characterization of a new species, Z, containing radiotracer-labeled, newly synthesized pea Rubisco large subunits. Rubisco assembly occurs in low salt in the presence of small subunits and ATP. As with Rubisco assembly, the formation of Z is ATP-dependent and is inhibited by high chloride. Once formed, Z is stable except in high chloride. Z does not appear to interact directly with small subunits. However, after Z formation, Rubisco assembly occurs in an ATP-independent reaction that requires KCl and small subunits. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that Z is a large subunit containing structure that can contribute large subunits to Rubisco under appropriate conditions. Z shares some physical characteristics with reported cyanobacterial L8 core particles. However, formation of Rubisco from Z in the absence of ATP and the presence of small subunits appears to require conditions that otherwise destabilize Z.
,   Growth hormone and its mediator, insulinlike growth factor 1 (IGF-1), are key determinants of growth in children and young adults. As patients with Fontan physiology often experience diminished longitudinal growth, we sought to describe IGF-1 levels in this population and to identify factors associated with IGF-1 deficiency. Forty-one Fontan subjects ≥5 years were evaluated in this cross-sectional study. Age- and gender-specific height Z scores were generated using national data. Laboratory testing included IGF-1 and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels. IGF-1 levels were converted to age-, gender-, and Tanner stage-specific Z scores. BNP levels were log transformed to achieve a normal distribution (log-BNP). Medical records were reviewed for pertinent clinical variables. Predictors of IGF-1 Z score were assessed through the Student t test and Pearson's correlation. Median age was 11.1 years (range 5.1 to 33.5 years), and time from Fontan was 8.2 years (1.1 to 26.7). Mean height Z score was -0.2 ± 0.9 with a mean IGF-1 Z score of -0.1 ± 1.3. There was no association between IGF-1 Z score and height Z score. Longer interval since Fontan (R = -0.32, p = 0.04), higher log-BNP (R = -0.40; p = 0.01), and lower indexed systemic flow on cardiac magnetic resonance (R = 0.55, p = 0.02) were associated with lower IGF-1 Z scores. In conclusion, in this cohort with Fontan physiology, higher BNP and lower systemic flow were associated with lower IGF-1 Z score. Longitudinal studies are needed to determine if these relations represent a mechanistic explanation for diminished growth in children with this physiology and with other forms of congenital heart disease. 
,   Here, we report the first characterization and partial purification of an archaeal tRNA 3' processing activity, the RNase Z from Haloferax volcanii. The activity identified here is an endonuclease, which cleaves tRNA precursors 3' to the discriminator. Thus tRNA 3' processing in archaea resembles the eukaryotic 3' processing pathway. The archaeal RNase Z has a KCl optimum at 5mM, which is in contrast to the intracellular KCl concentration being as high as 4M KCl. The archaeal RNase Z does process 5' extended and intron-containing pretRNAs but with a much lower efficiency than 5' matured, intronless pretRNAs. At least in vitro there is thus no defined order for 5' and 3' processing and splicing. A heterologous precursor tRNA is cleaved efficiently by the archaeal RNase Z. Experiments with precursors containing mutated tRNAs revealed that removal of the anticodon arm reduces cleavage efficiency only slightly, while removal of D and T arm reduces processing effciency drastically, even down to complete inhibition. Comparison with its nuclear and mitochondrial homologs revealed that the substrate specificity of the archaeal RNase Z is narrower than that of the nuclear RNase Z but broader than that of the mitochondrial RNase Z.
,   Mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (MS/MS) with collision-activated dissociation (CAD) was utilized to unequivocally distinguish 1,3-indandione rodenticides in 2 cases of anticoagulant toxicosis. Anecdotal evidence provided by the veterinarian in a case involving feedlot cows and physical evidence at the site of occurrence in a similar case involving lambs strongly implicated diphenadione (diphacinone; DP) in both instances. However, high performance liquid chromatography indicated chlorophacinone (CP), not DP, was present in the blood samples obtained from both cows and lambs. Intact 1,3-indandiones exhibit poor gas chromatographic properties, so procedures were developed for analysis by MS/MS using a direct exposure probe for sample introduction. The EI mass spectra of DP and CP contained a base peak at m/z 173, with molecular ions (M+) at m/z 340 and m/z 374 (Cl isotope cluster), respectively. Corresponding MS/MS CAD parent ion spectra of m/z 173 showed an ion of m/z 340 for DP and 374 (Cl cluster) for CP. CAD analysis of the blood extracts showed a parent ion scan of m/z 173 identical to that of CP, with the m/z 374 (Cl cluster). (Additional evidence was obtained by MS/MS examination of the CAD daughter ion spectrum of m/z 374.) Blood extracts from the affected animals revealed CAD daughter ion spectra for m/z 374 identical to that of reference CP. Positive confirmation of CP in both cases led to identification of the source of the toxicant and prevention of further animal exposures.
,   Physiological evidence is presented for the presence of stretch reflexes in the lateral pterygoid (Pt) muscle of the guinea pig. The central reflex effects of excitation of Pt stretch reflex afferents were also investigated. Passive lateral jaw displacement, which resulted in stretch of the Pt muscle on the side of jaw movement and stretch of the zygomatico-mandibularis (Z) muscle on the side contralateral to the movement, evoked increased EMG activity in these muscles. Stimulation of the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus (mes V) evoked monosynaptic reflexes in both the Pt and Z nerves. Tonic stretch of the Pt muscle facilitated the monosynaptic reflex in the Pt nerve evoked by stimulation of mes V. Tonic vibration of the Pt muscle facilitated the mes V evoked monosynaptic reflex in the nerves to the ipsilateral Pt and contralateral Z muscles. Conversely, tonic vibration of the Z muscle facilitated the monosynaptic reflex evolved by mes V stimulation in the contralateral Pt and ipsilateral Z nerve. The results support the view that muscle spindles exist in the Pt and Z muscles and that there is a monosynaptic stretch reflex for both the Pt and Z muscles with cell bodies located in the mes V nucleus. It was also shown that the ipsilateral Pt muscle and the contralateral Z muscle act as synergists in the production of lateral jaw movements and that the organization of the stretch reflexes originating from the Pt and Z muscles support their synergistic action.
,   Curcumin, a polyphenolic compound, has shown a wide range of pharmacological activities and has been widely used as a food additive. However, the clinical use of curcumin is limited to some extent because of its poor water solubility and low bioavailability. To overcome these problems, many approaches have been attempted and structural modification of curcumin by microbial transformation has been proven to be an alternative. In this study, we isolated a novel yeast strain Pichia kudriavzevii ZJPH0802 from a soil sample, which is capable of converting curcumin to its derivatives. The transformed products by this strain were evaluated by HPLC, (+) electrospray ionization (ESI)-MS(n), and (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance methods. Compared with controls, two new peaks of the transformed broth appeared at retention times of 26 min (I) and 62 min (II) by HPLC analysis. The two transformed products were then further identified by (+) ESI-MS(n). The spectrum showed that compound I had an accurate [M+H+NH3](+) ion at m/z 392, [M+H](+) ion at m/z 375, [M+H-H2O](+) ion at m/z 357, and (+) ESI-MS(3) spectrum showed that ion at m/z 357 could further form fragment ions at m/z 339, 177, and 163; compound II had an accurate [M+H](+) ion at m/z 373, [M+H-H2O](+) ion at m/z 355, and (+) ESI-MS(3) spectrum showed that ion at m/z 355 could further form fragment ions at m/z 219, 179, 177, 163, and 137. These two transformed products thereby were confirmed as hexahydrocurcumin (I) and tetrahydrocurcumin (II).
,   Epstein-Barr virus immediate early genes BZLF1 and BRLF1 encode the Z and R proteins respectively. Elevation of the anti-Z immunoglobulin (Ig) antibody titer is a common feature of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) in areas where the disease endemic, whereas R levels have not been examined. This study was performed to analyze antibody titers against Z and R in Japan.a from 14 patients with newly diagnosed NPC, 7 with NPC in complete remission, 15 with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), and 31 controls were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunoblotting.h anti-Z and anti-R Ig were significantly increased in sera from patients with NPC compared with those in remission, those with HNSCC, and controls (Z, P = 0.0016, = 0.0344, = 0.0002; R, P = 0.0015, = 0.0004, <0.0001 respectively). By immunoblot analysis, anti-Z and anti-R Ig were detected in 9 of 9 cases of NPC, 1 of 3 cases NPC in remission, and 2 of 13 cases of HNSCC. Anti-Z and anti-R antibody titers were nine times higher in NPC than in other groups. None of 15 control cases showed positive reactivity against either Z or R.pled evaluation of anti-Z and anti-R Ig by ELISA might be a useful system for screening NPC.
,   Monomers of azobenzene were isolated in argon matrices at 15 K and characterized by infrared spectroscopy and theoretical calculations. When the equilibrium vapors existing over the azobenzene crystals at room temperature were trapped in the matrix, only the thermodynamically most stable E-azobenzene was detected. In an attempt to convert E-azobenzene into the Z isomer, the matrix-isolated E-monomers were irradiated either by broad-band or narrow-band UV-visible light of different wavelengths, in the 600-200 nm range. However, no E-to-Z transformation was observed under these conditions. In an alternative experiment, E-azobenzene was irradiated by UV-visible broad-band light in the gas phase prior to trapping in a matrix. In this case, the E-to-Z photoisomerization occurred, and both E- and Z-azobenzene monomers were detected in the matrix sample. Subsequent irradiation of the matrix with narrow-band tunable visible or UV light (λ < 550 nm) resulted in back conversion of Z-azobenzene into the E-form. The observed photoinduced E-to-Z isomerizations allowed for the reliable vibrational characterization of both azobenzene isomers. The two-dimensional potential energy surfaces of Z- and E-azobenzene were explored as functions of the torsional movement of the two phenyl rings. They exhibit large flat areas around the minima, for both isomers, allowing for large-amplitude zero-point torsional vibrations. For the Z-form, these vibrations were found to be responsible for significant changes in the equilibrium NN bond length (up to 0.3 pm). This also allowed to explain the experimentally observed frequency smearing of the N=N stretching vibration in this isomer.
,   Z-ligustilide (Z-LIG) is the primary lipophilic compound of the Chinese medicine Danggui (Radix Angelica sinensis). Previous studies demonstrated that Z-LIG had significant neuroprotective potential in both transient and permanent cerebral ischemia, possibly through antioxidant and anti-apoptotic mechanisms. The present study examined the mechanisms of Z-LIG on hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-induced injury in PC12 cells. Following exposure of the cells to H(2)O(2 )(500 microM), a significant reduction in cell survival and total antioxidant capacity (TAC), as well as increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), were observed. In addition, H(2)O(2 )treatment significantly upregulated Bax expression, cleaved-caspase 3, and cytosolic cytochrome-c, and decreased Bcl-2 protein levels. Pretreatment of the cells with Z-LIG (0.1, 1.0, 2.5, or 5.0 microg/ml) significantly attenuated H(2)O(2)-induced cell death, attenuated increased intracellular ROS levels, and decreased Bax expression, cleaved-caspase 3, and cytochrome-c. Further, Z-LIG improved cellular TAC and concentration-dependently upregulated Bcl-2 expression. These results demonstrate that Z-LIG has a pronounced protective effect against H(2)O(2)-induced cytotoxicity, at least partly through improving cellular antioxidant defense and inhibiting the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. These findings suggest that Z-LIG may be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders in which oxidative stress and apoptosis are mainly implicated.
,   The aim was to investigate the relationship between the bond length and the electron density at the bond critical point in homonuclear X--X and Z--Z and heteronuclear C--Z bonds (X = Li-F, Z = Na-Cl). The d,rho(c) pairs were obtained from 472 target bonds in DFT-optimized (B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p)) small molecular species. These species were selected arbitrarily but with a view to maximize the range widths WR for each atom combination. It was found that (i) with one clear exception, the d(A - A) means (A = X or Z) correlate linearly with the bond lengths d(A(2)) of the respective diatomic molecules; (ii) the d(A - A) means correlate parabolically with n, the formal number of valence electrons in the atoms of the bond; and (iii) with increasing sample size N the ratio WR(rho(c))/WR(d) appears to converge toward a representation f [WR(rho(c))/WR(d)](N-->infinity) characteristic of A. Detailed analysis of the d,rho(c) relationship has shown that by and large simple power regression accounts best for the DFT data. The regression coefficients of d = arho(c) (-b) and rho(c) = alphad(-beta) (b, beta > 0) vary with n in a seemingly irregular manner but one that is consistent with simple chemical notions. The d(A(2)) can be approximated in terms of multilinear MO electron occupancies.
,   To establish the determinants of weight, length and head circumference changes during their initial hospitalization in very-low-birth-weight preterm infants.rospective cohort study was performed. Weight z-score and percentage of target dietary intakes (TDIs) were prospectively determined daily during the first 5 weeks of life in a group of preterm infants (n = 111, birth weight <1,500 g, gestational age <34 weeks). Weight, length and head circumference at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age (PMA) were recorded. A mixed effects regression model was used to evaluate changes in weight z-score during the first 5 weeks of life. Simple Pearson correlations and stepwise logistic regression were used to determine the relationship between fetal growth, illness severity, nutritional intake and growth at 36 weeks' PMA.ght z-score decreased significantly in all infants during the first 5 weeks of life from -0.92 ± 0.66 at birth to -1.89 ± 0.65 at 5 weeks. The variation of weight z-score during the first 5 weeks of life was influenced by weight z-score at birth, energy and protein intakes and gestational age. Mean energy and protein intakes were 95.5 and 86.4% of TDIs. Weight z-score fell to -2.05 ± 0.64 at 36 weeks' PMA. Birth weight z-score was significantly correlated with weight z-score at 36 weeks (R2 = 0.71; p < 0.001). Severity of illness influenced the weight z-score at 36 weeks.pite achieving a protein and energy intake close to the described target intake, the rate of growth in our infants was lower than indicated by the intrauterine growth curve. Lower gestational age, lower birth weight and severe illness had a negative effect on growth.
,   Antibodies against Z-DNA react with fixed metaphase chromosomes of man and other mammals. Indirect immunofluorescence staining shows that chromosomal segments corresponding to R- and T-bands preferentially fix Z-DNA antibodies. In this work Z-DNA antibodies were used as a probe for DNA conformation in euchromatin of fixed human chromosomes whose condensation or staining were modified by actinomycin D (AMD) and by 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Treatments with AMD and BrdU were performed to induce a G-banding by modification of chromosomal segments corresponding to R- and T-bands. Long BrdU treatments were used to induce asymmetrical and partially undercondensed chromosomes by substitution of thymidine in one or both DNA strand. Our results show a clear difference of Z-DNA antibodies reactivity after AMD or BrdU treatment. The G-banding obtained after AMD treatment is not reversed by Z-DNA antibodies staining since these antibodies bind very weakly to the undercondensed R-bands. On the other hand, the G-banding obtained by BrdU is completely reversed giving typical R-banding, as on untreated chromosomes. For asymmetrical chromosomes an R-, T-banding pattern is always observed but there is a decrease of the fluorescence intensity proportional to the degree of BrdU incorporation. We conclude that AMD treatment greatly disturbs Z-DNA antibodies binding suggesting a change in DNA conformation, whereas BrdU treatments do not suppress but only weaken the specific binding of Z-DNA antibodies on R- and T-bands. The direct involvement of thymidine substitution in DNA sequences recognized by Z-DNA antibodies is discussed.
,   Studies show that blocking the activation of caspases by the caspase inhibitors z-VAD.FMK and z-DEVD.FMK can reduce ischemic neuronal injury after cerebral ischemia. Because the severity of ischemia was mild in some studies, we tested the efficacy of these caspase inhibitors on moderately severe but transient forebrain and focal ischemic insults in the rat.ious regimens of z-VAD, z-DEVD, and control DMSO were given to rats subjected to either 4-vessel occlusion ischemia (4-VO, 10-minute occlusion, 7-day survival) or distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo, 90-minute occlusion, 22.5-hour survival). In global ischemia, treatments were given immediately after ischemia (experiment 1) or as preischemic and postischemic treatments (experiment 2). Three focal ischemia experiments were done. Injection times were 60 minutes into ischemia (experiment 1) and 60 minutes into ischemia plus 30 and 120 minutes after ischemia (experiment 2). Experiment 3 was identical to experiment 2 except that a 30-minute preischemia treatment was instituted. Core normothermia was maintained in all experiments during ischemia. However, in the last focal and global experiments, core and brain temperatures, respectively, were also measured after ischemia with telemetry probes. Because hyperthermia accompanied z-DEVD treatment, an extra z-DEVD-treated group (MCAo) was included with temperature clamped at normothermia.ther z-VAD nor z-DEVD significantly reduced CA1 injury after global ischemia. In focal ischemia, both drugs significantly reduced infarction, but only in the third experiment, and the prevention of hyperthermia that accompanied z-DEVD treatment did not alter this.se results suggest a detrimental role of caspases in moderately severe focal but not global cerebral ischemia.
,   In vertebrate muscles, Z-bands connect adjacent sarcomeres, incorporate several cell signaling proteins, and may act as strain sensors. Previous electron microscopy (EM) showed Z-bands reversibly switch between a relaxed, "small-square" structure, and an active, "basketweave" structure, but the mechanism of this transition is unknown. Here, we found the ratio of small-square to basketweave in relaxed rabbit psoas muscle varied with temperature, osmotic pressure, or ionic strength, independent of activation. By EM, the A-band and both Z-band lattice spacings varied with temperature and pressure, not ionic strength; however, the basketweave spacing was consistently 10% larger than small-square. We next sought evidence for the two Z-band structures in unfixed muscles using x-ray diffraction, which indicated two Z-reflections whose intensity ratios and spacings correspond closely to the EM measurements for small-square and basketweave if the EM spacings are adjusted for 20% shrinkage due to EM processing. We conclude that the two Z-reflections arise from the small-square and basketweave forms of the Z-band as seen by EM. Regarding the mechanism of transition during activation, the effects of Ca(2+) in the presence of force inhibitors suggested that the interconversion of Z-band forms was correlated with tropomyosin movement on actin.
,   The present study compares the applicability of CT carotid plaque imaging using effective Z maps using gemstone spectral imaging (GSI) with that of conventional extracorporeal carotid ultrasound (US) and virtual histology-intravascular ultrasound (VH-IVUS).assessed stenosis in 31 carotid arteries of 30 patients. All patients underwent carotid CTA using GSI (Discovery CT750 HD, GE Healthcare). US and IVUS were examined with 25 and 8 vessels, respectively. We compared the effective Z values at noncalcified carotid plaque with the plaque components identified by US. We defined the plaque with low or low to iso intensity on US as vulnerable plaque and the plaque with iso, iso to high, and high intensity on US as stable plaque. We also performed visual assessment of color-coded effective Z maps in comparison with VH-IVUS and compared effective Z values with plaque components generated by VH-IVUS. effective Z values at noncalcified carotid plaque were significantly lower for a group with vulnerable plaque, than with stable plaque on US (p < 0.05). Receiver operating curve analysis showed that AUC of effective Z values was 0.882 concerning the differentiation of these two groups on US. The interpretation of color-coded effective Z maps was essentially compatible with that of VH-IVUS for carotid plaque in all vessels. Effective Z values at noncalcified plaque showed significant negative correlation with the areas of fibro-fatty components generated by VH-IVUS (ρ = -0.874, p < 0.05).ective Z maps generated by GSI can detect vulnerable carotid plaque materials.
,   5'-([(Z)-4-Amino-2-butenyl]methylamino)-5'-deoxyadenosine [Z)-AbeAdo) was tested in vitro and in vivo as a potential inhibitor of S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC), a pyruvoyl-containing enzyme, purified from rat liver. In vitro (Z)-AbeAdo produces a time- and dose-dependent irreversible inhibition of the enzyme. Saturation kinetics are observed when the enzyme is preincubated with (Z)-AbeAdo in the presence of 50 microM putrescine, a known activator of AdoMetDC. Under these conditions kinetic constants were measured (Ki = 0.56 +/- 0.04 microM; tau 1/2 = 0.51 +/- 0.03 min). The inhibition is not relieved by prolonged dialysis of the inactivated enzyme. The turnover number for (Z)-AbeAdo, i.e. the number of inactivator molecules required to inactivate one enzyme molecule, is approximately 1.5. The selectivity of (Z)-AbeAdo was explored: the compound is not a substrate of adenosine deaminase, mitochondrial monoamine oxidase and diamine oxidase, but is slowly oxidized by benzylamine oxidase from rat aorta. The (E)-isomer of AbeAdo, is at least 100-fold less active than (Z)-AbeAdo as a time-dependent inhibitor of rat liver AdoMetDC. In rats, intraperitoneal administration of (Z)-AbeAdo produces a rapid, long-lasting and dose-dependent decrease of AdoMetDC activity in ventral prostate, testis and brain.
,   The clinical usefulness of Z-100 (Z group) for the treatment of leukopenia caused by radiotherapy for malignant tumors was evaluated by comparing it with that of L-cysteine (L group) by the double-blind method. For 178 complete cases, there were no significant differences in the time-course of the WBC during radiotherapy between the two group. However, for cases with a large field of irradiation (15 X 15 cm = 225 cm2), the mean WBC count in the L group decreased more than that in the Z group. The Z group showed comparable or superior efficacy for the treatment of leukopenia in the L group although there were no significant differences. Adverse reactions were observed in 5.66% and 2.94% in the Z and L groups, respectively, without any significant difference between the groups. The utility rate, useful or better, was 73.9% and 69.2% in the Z and L groups, respectively, showing a slightly higher rate in the Z group than in the L group, although the difference between the two groups was not significant. These results confirmed that Z-100 has comparable or superior efficacy to L-cysteine for the treatment of leukopenia caused by large field radiotherapy for malignant tumors.
,   This study aimed to examine the multidimensionality of schizotypy and validate the structure using ordered subset linkage analyses on information from both relatives' schizotypy and probands' schizophrenia symptoms. A total of 203 and 1,310 nonpsychotic first-degree relatives from simplex and multiplex schizophrenia families, respectively, were interviewed with the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies, which contains a modified Structured Interview for Schizotypy. Using Mplus program with categorical factor indicators, a four-factor model (Negative Schizotypy, Positive Schizotypy, Interpersonal Sensitivity, and Social Isolation/Introversion) was extracted by exploratory factor analysis from relatives of simplex families and was confirmed in relatives of multiplex families. The validity of each factor was supported by distinct linkage findings resulting from ordered subset analysis based on different combinations of schizophrenia-schizotypy factors. Six chromosomal regions with significant increase in nonparametric linkage z score (NPL-Z) were found as follows: 15q21.1 (NPL-Z = 3.60) for Negative Schizophrenia-Negative Schizotypy, 10q22.3 (NPL-Z = 3.83) and 15q21.3 (NPL-Z = 3.36) for Negative Schizophrenia-Social Isolation/Introversion, 5q14.2 (NPL-Z = 3.20) and 11q23.3 (NPL-Z = 3.31) for Positive Schizophrenia-Positive Schizotypy, and 4q32.1 (NPL-Z = 3.31) for Positive Schizophrenia-Interpersonal Sensitivity. The greatest NPL-Z of 3.83 on 10q22.3 in the subset was significantly higher than the greatest one of 2.88 in the whole sample (empirical P-value = 0.04). We concluded that a consistent four-factor model of schizotypy could be derived in nonpsychotic relatives across families of patients with different genetic loadings in schizophrenia. Their differential relations to linkage signals have etiological implications and provide further evidence for their validity.
,   According to the Barker hypothesis, intrauterine growth restriction and premature delivery adversely affect cardiovascular health in adult life. The association of childhood hypertension as a cardiovascular risk factor and birth weight has been understudied. In a prospective cohort study, the authors evaluated the effect of birth weight, gestational age, maternal prepregnancy body mass index (BMI), and child BMI z score at the time of enrollment on the systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) z score in 3024 (1373 women) consecutive outpatient clinic patients aged 2.05 to 18.58 years. The latest National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III) was used to calculate the age-dependent z scores. The median z scores of BMI (+0.48, range -6.96-6.64), systolic BP (+0.41, range -4.50-6.73), and diastolic BP (+0.34, range -3.15-+6.73) were all significantly greater than the NHANES III reference population. Systolic BP z score did not correlate with birth weight or gestational age, but did correlate with maternal prepregnancy BMI (r=.090, P<.0001) and BMI z score (r=.209, P<.0001). Diastolic BP z score positively correlated with birth weight (0.037, P=.044), gestational age (r=.052, P=.005), BMI z score(r=.106, P<.0001), and maternal prepregnancy BMI (r=.062, P=.0007). In contrast to what would be expected from the Barker hypothesis, the authors found no negative correlation between BP z score and birth weight or gestational age. This study suggests that a high BMI, a big mom, and a high birth weight are more important risk factors for hypertension during childhood than low birth weight or gestational age.
,   To prepare the recombinant epitopes of SARS-CoV spike protein and study their antigenic property to spike protein. epitopes of SARS-CoV spike protein were analyzed by epitope prediction software. A novel gene, named Z, encoding 16 predicted epitopes of spike protein was designed and synthesized using chemical method. Z gene was cloned into vector pET-28a(+), expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3) and purified by Ni(2+) affinity method. Z protein was used as antigen to immunize the rabbit and anti-Z sera was collected. Then the antigenic property of Z protein to SARS-CoV spike protein was analyzed by dot-blot and ELISA assay.ene was successfully designed and expressed in E.coli BL21(DE3). Dot blot analysis showed that SARS-CoV spike protein, which was expressed and purified from mammal cells, can be detected by anti-Z sera from rabbit. ELISA analysis indicated the SARS-CoV antigen prepared from SARS-CoV lysates can be detected by anti-Z sera. predicted epitopes of Z protein can induce the development of SARS-CoV spike protein antibody in rabbits, which provides a new protein for developing vaccine against SARS-CoV.
,   Weight-for-length during the early postnatal period is a critical predictor of subsequent body composition and metabolic risk. This study was designed to analyze change in weight-for-length status according to birth weight in early infancy. Data were collected for 267 infants enrolled in the Jackson County Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program. Postnatal measurements were collected at a clinic visit between birth and 12 weeks of age (mean = 5.7 weeks). Changes in WHO z-scores (weight, length, weight-for-length) between birth and the clinic visit were calculated. Infants were classified as exclusively breastfed or as formula-fed. Ethnicity was coded as Hispanic or non-Hispanic. Infants were classified based on birth weight z-score as lower (<-1 SD) or higher (> +1 SD). Multiple regression models tested birth weight, demographic factors, and feeding as predictors of z-score change measures. Demographic factors and feeding were also tested as moderators of the effects of birth weight. Lower birth weight infants displayed an increase in weight-for-length z-score between birth and the clinic visit. Change in weight-for-length was associated with significant increase in weight z-score but not in length z-score. Higher birth weight predicted decrease in weight and length z-scores but did not predict change in weight-for-length. Hispanic ethnicity predicted decrease in length z-score and increase in weight-for-length z-score but did not moderate effects of birth weight. Increase in weight-for-length among lower birth weight infants and persistence of high weight-for-length among higher birth weight infants may reflect phenotypic adjustments that are maladaptive in adverse dietary environments.
,   The muscle cell cytoskeleton is defined for this review as any structure or protein primarily involved in linking or connecting protein filaments to each other or to anchoring sites. In striated muscle, the M line connects thick filaments at their centers to adjacent thick filaments. Titin forms elastic filaments that extend from the M line to the Z line and may contribute to the resting tension properties of striated muscle. Nebulin forms inextensible filaments in skeletal muscle that are closely associated with thin filaments and that may provide a length template for thin filaments. Z lines anchor thin filaments from adjacent sarcomeres via the actin-binding function of alpha-actinin. Other proteins located at the Z line include Cap Z, Z-nin, Z protein, and zeugmatin. Intermediate filaments connect myofibrils to each other at the level of the Z line and to the sarcolemma at the Z- and possibly the M-line levels. Immunolocalization has identified the adhesion plaque proteins spectrin, vinculin, dystrophin, ankyrin, and talin at subsarcolemmal sites where they may be involved with filament attachment. Smooth muscle cell cytoskeletons are believed to include membrane associated dense bodies (MADBs), intermediate filaments, cytoplasmic dense bodies (CDBs), and perhaps a subset of actin filaments. MADBs contain a menu of attachment plaque proteins and anchor both thin filaments and intermediate filaments to the sarcolemma. CDBs are intracellular analogs of striated muscle Z lines and anchor thin filaments and intermediate filaments.
,   Replacing the nonyl groups on the solar cell dye Ru(4,4'-carboxylic acid-2,2'-bipyridine)(4,4'-dinonyl-2,2'-bipyridine)(NCS)(2) (Z-907) with amino groups results in a marked decrease in solar cell performance. This is despite the fact that the amino derivative (Z-960) has more favourable light absorption characteristics than Z-907 when used with thick nanocrystalline TiO(2) layers. Electron transfer to the electrolyte from the exposed fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) substrate is particularly fast in cells employing the Z-960 dye if a compact TiO(2) blocking layer is not used. The kinetics of electron transfer from the nanocrystalline TiO(2) layer in DSCs employing Z-960 are comparable to those of bare TiO(2) and ca. 2 to 5 times faster than for cells employing Z-907. The faster charge recombination in cells employing Z-960 lowers open-circuit photovoltage and results in very significant charge collection losses that lower short-circuit photocurrent. Voltammetric measurements show that surface modification of FTO electrodes with Z-960 results in slightly more facile charge transfer to acceptor species in triiodide/iodide electrolytes in the dark. A simpler molecule, p-aminobenzoic acid, more dramatically catalyses this charge transfer reaction. Conversely, chemical modification of FTO electrodes with Z-907 or p-toluic acid retards charge transfer kinetics. Similar results are obtained for nanocrystalline TiO(2) electrodes modified with these benzoic acid derivatives. These results strongly imply that surface adsorbed molecules bearing amino groups, including dye molecules, can catalyse charge recombination in dye-sensitized solar cells.
,   Arenaviruses are negative-strand RNA viruses that cause human diseases such as lymphocytic choriomeningitis, Bolivian hemorrhagic fever, and Lassa hemorrhagic fever. No licensed vaccines exist, and current treatment is limited to ribavirin. The prototypic arenavirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), is a model for dissecting virus-host interactions in persistent and acute disease. The RING finger protein Z has been identified as the driving force of arenaviral budding and acts as the viral matrix protein. While residues in Z required for viral budding have been described, residues that govern the Z matrix function(s) have yet to be fully elucidated. Because this matrix function is integral to viral assembly, we reasoned that this would be reflected in sequence conservation. Using sequence alignment, we identified several conserved residues in Z outside the RING and late domains. Nine residues were each mutated to alanine in Lassa fever virus Z. All of the mutations affected the expression of an LCMV minigenome and the infectivity of virus-like particles, but to greatly varying degrees. Interestingly, no mutations appeared to affect Z-mediated budding or association with viral GP. Our findings provide direct experimental evidence supporting a role for Z in the modulation of the activity of the viral ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex and its packaging into mature infectious viral particles.
,   The neuroprotective effects of two isomers (Z- and E-) of ajoene, a major compound in oil-macerated garlic products, against ischemic damage were investigated in the gerbil hippocampus. Vehicle (corn oil), Z- or E-ajoenes (25 mg/kg) was orally administered 30 min prior to the induction of transient forebrain ischemia by occlusion of the common carotid arteries for 5 min. One day after ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), I/R-induced hyperactivity significantly reduced in the E- and Z-ajoene-treated groups, compared to that in the vehicle-treated group 5 days after I/R, the number of cresyl violet-positive neurons in the E- and Z-ajoene-treated groups increased, compared to that in the vehicle-treated group. Reactive gliosis in the CA1 region of E- and Z-ajoene-treated groups reduced, compared to that in the vehicle-treated group. These neuroprotective effects were more prominent in animals treated with Z-ajoene, than in those treated with E-ajoene. In addition, Z-ajoene significantly decreased lipid peroxidation, as indicated by 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal levels in hippocampal homogenates, compared to that observed in the vehicle-treated group at a range of time points after I/R. These results suggested that Z-ajoene protected against I/R-induced delayed neuronal death and gliosis by reducing lipid peroxidation in the gerbil hippocampal CA1 region.
,   Biosynthesis of transfer RNA requires processing from longer precursors at the 5'- and 3'-ends. In eukaryotes, in archaea, and in those bacteria where the 3'-terminal CCA sequence is not encoded, 3' processing is carried out by the endonuclease RNase Z, which cleaves after the discriminator nucleotide to generate a mature 3'-end ready for the addition of the CCA sequence. We have identified and cloned the gene coding for RNase Z in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. The gene has been expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant protein was purified. The enzymatic activity of RNase Z from Synechocystis has been studied in vitro with a variety of substrates. The presence of C or CC after the discriminator nucleotide modifies the cleavage site of RNase Z so that it is displaced by one and two nucleotides to the 3'-side, respectively. The presence of the complete 3'-terminal CCA sequence in the precursor of the tRNA completely inhibits RNase Z activity. The inactive CCA-containing precursor binds to Synechocystis RNase Z with similar affinity than the mature tRNA. The properties of the enzyme described here could be related with the mechanism by which CCA is added in this organism, with the participation of two separate nucleotidyl transferases, one specific for the addition of C and another for the addition of A. This work is the first characterization of RNase Z from a cyanobacterium, and the first from an organism with two separate nucleotidyl transferases.
,   The effects exerted by short runs of adenines (A-tracts), alternating (AT)n segments, and single-stranded DNA upon the right- to left-handed DNA transition, as well as upon the energetic and structural parameters of the B/Z junctions, were investigated by using synthetic segments in which these motifs are coupled to a potentially Z-forming core. UV, CD, and 31P NMR studies of the salt-induced B to Z transition occurring in the various segments indicate that the transition is composed of two phases: a slow rate-determining induction of an initial structural deformation followed by a cooperative propagation of this "nucleus" in the form of a left-handed Z-DNA. The first phase is found to be crucially affected by the nature of the sequences coupled to the potentially Z-forming core. Thus, a higher rigidity of the flanking segments, such as that characterizing adenine tracts, is associated with higher energy values required for the induction of the initial conformational deformation, as well as with more defined structural parameters of the ultimate B/Z junctions. The second phase is affected mainly by the composition and sequence of the Z-forming segment. The observations that DNA conformational changes can be finely tuned and modulated by parameters pertaining to both the segment which undergoes the transition and the flanking sequences support the notion that DNA secondary motifs, such as the Z form and A-tracts, might be involved in the regulation of cellular processes.
,   The occurrence of alternative structures for the lithium, sodium, and potassium salts of poly(dG-dC) was determined as a function of hydration using IR spectra of nonoriented gels. Poly(dG-dC).K with added KCl (r = 0.56 where r is the moles of KCl per mole of nucleotide residue) gave results essentially identical to the much studied poly(dG-dC).Na with added NaCl (r = 0.56). Both gave a sharp transition from a unique B structure (hereafter designated B*) to the Z structure upon dehydration. Poly(dG-dC).Li with added LiCl (r = 0.36) assumed the B* structure at high hydration but made a broad transition to the C structures as hydration was lowered. We believe this is the first clear evidence of the C structure for poly(dG-dC). No other structures (A, D, or Z) were observed at any hydration in nonoriented gels. Poly(dG-dC).Na with added ZnCl2 (r = 0.2) existed as a mixture of the B* and Z structures in maximally hydrated gels. A broad, incomplete transition to a higher mole fraction of Z structure occurred upon dehydration. Zn2+ promotes the Z structure for poly(dG-dC) and appears to bind to guanine residues. Poly(dG-dC).Na with added MgCl2 or CaCl2 (r = 0.2) assumed the normal B* structure at maximum hydration with no hint of Z structure. Slight dehydration produced a very sharp transition to the Z structure. Both Mg2+ and Ca2+ are strong promoters of the Z structure but do not bind to cytosine or guanine residues.
,   Childhood obesity remains a prominent public health problem. Walkable built environments may prevent excess weight gain.examined the association of walkable built environment characteristics with body mass index (BMI) z-score among a large sample of children and adolescents.used geocoded residential address data from electronic health records of 49,770 children and adolescents 4 to < 19 years of age seen at the 14 pediatric practices of Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates from August 2011 through August 2012. We used eight geographic information system (GIS) variables to characterize walkable built environments. Outcomes were BMI z-score at the most recent visit and BMI z-score change from the earliest available (2008-2011) to the most recent (2011-2012) visit. Multivariable models were adjusted for child age, sex, race/ethnicity, and neighborhood median household income.multivariable cross-sectional models, living in closer proximity to recreational open space was associated with lower BMI z-score. For example, children who lived in closest proximity (quartile 1) to the nearest recreational open space had a lower BMI z-score (β = -0.06; 95% CI: -0.08, -0.03) compared with those living farthest away (quartile 4; reference). Living in neighborhoods with fewer recreational open spaces and less residential density, traffic density, sidewalk completeness, and intersection density were associated with higher cross-sectional BMI z-score and with an increase in BMI z-score over time.rall, built environment characteristics that may increase walkability were associated with lower BMI z-scores in a large sample of children. Modifying existing built environments to make them more walkable may reduce childhood obesity.
,   A fast and quantitative 2D high-resolution magic angle spinning (HR-MAS) total correlation spectroscopy (TOCSY) experiment was developed to resolve and quantify the choline- and ethanolamine-containing metabolites in human prostate tissues in approximately 1 hr prior to pathologic analysis. At a 40-ms mixing time, magnetization transfer efficiency constants were empirically determined in solution and used to calculate metabolite concentrations in tissue. Phosphocholine (PC) was observed in 11/15 (73%) cancer tissues but only 6/32 (19%) benign tissues. PC was significantly higher (0.39 +/- 0.40 mmol/kg vs. 0.02 +/- 0.07 mmol/kg, z = 3.5), while ethanolamine (Eth) was significantly lower in cancer versus benign prostate tissues (1.0 +/- 0.8 mmol/kg vs. 2.3 +/- 1.9 mmol/kg, z = 3.3). Glycerophosphocholine (GPC) (0.57 +/- 0.87 mmol/kg vs. 0.29 +/- 0.26 mmol/kg, z = 1.2), phosphoethanolamine (PE) (4.4 +/- 2.2 mmol/kg vs. 3.4 +/- 2.6 mmol/kg, z = 1.4), and glycerophosphoethanolamine (GPE) (0.54 +/- 0.82 mmol/kg vs. 0.15 +/- 0.15 mmol/kg, z = 1.8) were higher in cancer versus benign prostate tissues. The ratios of PC/GPC (3.5 +/- 4.5 vs. 0.32 +/- 1.4, z = 2.6), PC/PE (0.08 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.01 +/- 0.03, z = 3.5), PE/Eth (16 +/- 22 vs. 2.2 +/- 2.0, z = 2.4), and GPE/Eth (0.41 +/- 0.51 vs. 0.06 +/- 0.06, z = 2.6) were also significantly higher in cancer versus benign tissues. All samples were pathologically interpretable following HR-MAS analysis; however, degradation experiments showed that PC, GPC, PE, and GPE decreased 7.7 +/- 2.2%, while Cho+mI and Eth increased 18% in 1 hr at 1 degrees C and a 2250 Hz spin rate.
,   Frequent blooms have been observed in tributary bays of the Three Gorges Reservoir since its initial filling. In order to identify the primary factor controlling water blooms, some experiments were conducted based on the critical depth theory. In the winter of early 2012, the enclosures on Xiangxi River were built to investigate the mechanism of mixing layer depth (Z(mix)) on algal growth. The length of the enclosures under water was changed in gradient, and the water of each enclosures was injected from Xiangxi River, in which the algal concentration was low and the zooplanktons were filtered out, and then the water was mixed evenly. The results showed that the algae grew quickly in the enclosures with Z(eu)/Z(mix) (the favorable ratio of euphotic depth to mixing depth) > 1, and the maximum density of chlorophyll-a (ChI-a) reached 90 mg x m(-3), otherwise the algae grew slowly. The critical depth theory was appropriate for the experiment, and there was a critical value of Z(eu)/Z(mix). Water bloom will not break out if the Z(eu)/Z(mix) is below the critical value. Based on the critical depth theory, it was found that there was a negative correlation between algal net primary productivity and Z(mix), the lower the Z(mix), the greater the net primary productivity.
,   This in vitro study was designed to assess the z-axis resolving capabilities of reconstructed helical CT scans obtained with various imaging parameters versus those of conventional CT scans and the effect of decreasing slice index on the z-axis resolution of helical CT.-axis line-pair phantom was imaged using conventional nonoverlapped CT scans, conventional CT scans that overlapped by 50%, and helical CT scans with pitches of 1.0 and 1.5. All helical images were reconstructed at comparable slice indexes (image indexes of 2.0, 1.0, and 0.5 mm for pitch = 1.0, and image indexes of 3.0, 1.5, and 0.75 mm for pitch = 1.5). Midline coronal and sagittal reconstructed images were obtained to allow standardized visualization of line pairs. The reconstructed images were reviewed separately by 10 radiologists. overall z-axis resolution of reconstructed helical CT scans equaled or exceeded that of nonoverlapped conventional CT scans in all cases and equaled that of 50% overlapped conventional CT scans in 75% of cases. The 1.0-pitch helical sequences showed improved z-axis resolution with decreasing slice index. No statistically significant improvement in z-axis resolution could be determined by the observers for 1.5-pitch sequences with decreasing slice index. use of helical CT with a pitch of 1.0 or 1.5 and an increased slice index can improve the z-axis resolution of reconstructed images when compared with nonoverlapped conventional CT and frequently equals the resolution of 50% overlapped conventional CT. This improvement in z-axis resolution should improve the appearance of reconstructed images (as used in CT angiography and three-dimensional imaging) by reducing partial volume artifacts while affording faster scanning at a reduced skin-surface radiation dose.
,   Alpha-1 antitrypsin is the main inhibitor of neutrophil elastase in the lung. Although it is principally synthesized by hepatocytes, alpha-1 antitrypsin is also secreted by bronchial epithelial cells. Gene mutations can lead to alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, with the Z variant being the most clinically relevant due to its propensity to polymerize. The ability of bronchial epithelial cells to produce Z-variant protein and its polymers is unknown.eriments using a conformation-specific antibody were carried out on M- and Z-variant-transfected 16HBE cells and on bronchial biopsies and ex vivo bronchial epithelial cells from Z and M homozygous patients. In addition, the effect of an inflammatory stimulus on Z-variant polymer formation, elicited by Oncostatin M, was investigated. Comparisons of groups were performed using t-test or ANOVA. Non-normally distributed data were assessed by Mann-Whitney U test or the Kruskal-Wallis test, where appropriate. A P value of < 0.05 was considered to be significant.ha-1 antitrypsin polymers were found at a higher concentration in the culture medium of ex vivo bronchial epithelial cells from Z-variant homozygotes, compared with M-variant homozygotes (P < 0.01), and detected in the bronchial epithelial cells and submucosa of patient biopsies. Oncostatin M significantly increased the expression of alpha-1 antitrypsin mRNA and protein (P < 0.05), and the presence of Z-variant polymers in ex vivo cells (P < 0.01).ymers of Z-alpha-1 antitrypsin form in bronchial epithelial cells, suggesting that these cells may be involved in the pathogenesis of lung emphysema and in bronchial epithelial cell dysfunction.
,   Survival of patients with congenital heart disease has improved such that there are now more adults than children living with these conditions. Complex single ventricle congenital heart disease requiring Fontan palliation is associated with multiple risk factors for impaired bone accrual. Bone density and structure have not been characterized in these patients.ia peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) was used to assess trabecular and cortical volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD), cortical dimensions, and calf muscle area in 43 Fontan participants (5-33 years old), a median of 10 years following Fontan palliation. pQCT outcomes were converted to sex- and race-specific Z-scores relative to age based on >700 healthy reference participants. Cortical dimensions and muscle area were further adjusted for tibia length.ght Z-scores were lower in Fontan compared to reference participants (mean ± SD: -0.29 ± 1.00 vs. 0.25 ± 0.93, p < 0.001); BMI Z-scores were similar (0.16 ± 0.88 vs. 0.35 ± 1.02, p = 0.1). Fontan participants had lower trabecular vBMD Z-scores (-0.85 ± 0.96 vs. 0.01 ± 1.02, p < 0.001); cortical vBMD Z-scores were similar (-0.17 ± 0.98 vs. 0.00 ± 1.00, p = 0.27). Cortical dimensions were reduced with lower cortical area (-0.59 ± 0.84 vs. 0.00 ± 0.88, p<0.001) and periosteal circumference (-0.50 ± 0.82 vs. 0.00 ± 0.84, p < 0.001) Z-scores, compared to reference participants. Calf muscle area Z-scores were lower in the Fontan participants (-0.45 ± 0.98 vs. 0.00 ± 0.96, p = 0.003) and lower calf muscle area Z-scores were associated with smaller periosteal circumference Z-scores (R = 0.62, p < 0.001). Musculoskeletal deficits were not associated with age, Fontan characteristics, parathyroid hormone or vitamin D levels.ldren and young adults demonstrate low trabecular vBMD, cortical structure and muscle area following Fontan. Muscle deficits were associated with smaller periosteal dimensions. Future studies should determine the fracture implications of these deficits and identify interventions to promote musculoskeletal development.
,   The syntheses and biological activities of fluorobutynol 11 and (E)- and (Z)-fluorobutenols 8a,d and 9a,d are described. Alkylation of adenine with bromofluorobutyne 13a afforded intermediate 14 which was converted to fluorobutynol 11. Aldehyde 16a and (carbethoxyfluoromethyl)-triphenylphosphonium bromide furnished (E)- and (Z)-fluorobutenoates 19a and 20a accompanied by regioisomer 21a. A similar reaction of compound 16d afforded Z- and E-esters 19d and 20d. Reduction of the mixture of 19a and 20a with DIBALH gave (E)- and (Z)-fluoroalkenols 8a and 9a. Similarly, the Z-ester 19d gave (Z)-fluoroalkenol 9d. Both 19d and 20d were reduced with NaBH4 to give (Z)- and (E)-fluoroalkenols 9d and 8d. Hydrogenation of 19a and 20a afforded fluoro ester 23. A similar reduction of 8a and 9a led to fluoro alcohol 24 and the defluorinated product 25 which were separated by chromatography on a Bio-Rad AG 1-X2 (OH-) column. (Z)-Fluorobutenol 9a is a substrate for adenosine deaminase, whereas the E-isomer 8a is inert toward the enzyme. By contrast, analogue 8a inhibited the replication and cytopathic effect of HIV-1 in ATH8 cells with an IC50 of approximately 100 microM, but the Z-isomer 9a was inactive. This effect was accompanied by 36% cytotoxicity at 100 microM. Compounds 11 and 8d inhibited the growth of murine leukemia L1210 culture with IC50 = 89 and 60 microM, respectively.
,   The aim of this study was to compare actual versus mentally simulated preparation for a complex motor skill. Two behavioral periods are observed during weightlifting: (i) an initial phase in which the subject standing behind the bar is thought to focus his attention on forthcoming execution and (ii) a second phase between hands/bar contact and execution during which the subject is thought to increase activation. Such mental processes accompanying behavioral sequences are correlated with autonomic nervous system activity, phasic responses corresponding to allocation of attentional resources, and tonic variations related to increasing general activation. To study mental processes during preparation for action, 12 subjects performed actual and imagined preparation phases of execution. Six autonomic variables were measured continuously. Skin potential (chi2 = 0.16), skin temperature amplitude (Z = -0.66) and duration (Z = -1.78), skin blood flow amplitude (Z = -0.56) and duration (Z = -1.51), respiratory frequency amplitude (Z = -0.14) and duration (Z = -0.13), and duration of heart rate response (Z = -1.25) were shown to be comparable (p > .05), whatever the modality of preparation. However, during mentally simulated preparation, skin resistance response was shorter than in actual preparation (Z = -2.12, p < .05), thus attesting to a weaker load, whereas lower decrease in heart rate was elicited (Z = -1.96, p < .05). This may be explained by this particular experimental condition because mental preparation would not lead to actual action. Such autonomic variables could be used as feedback to improve performance.
,   Sex pheromones of many moth species have relatively simple structures consisting of a hydrocarbon chain with a functional group and one to several double bonds. These sex pheromones are derived from fatty acids through specific biosynthetic pathways. We investigated the incorporation of deuterium-labeled tetradecanoic, hexadecanoic, and octadecanoic acid precursors into pheromone components of Heliothis subflexa and Heliothis virescens. The two species utilize (Z)11-hexadecenal as the major pheromone component, which is produced by Delta11 desaturation of hexadecanoic acid. H. subflexa also produced (Z)11-hexadecanol and (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate via Delta11 desaturation. In H. subflexa, octadecanoic acid was used to biosynthesize the minor pheromone components (Z)9-hexadecenal, (Z)9-hexadecenol, and (Z)9-hexadecenyl acetate. These minor components are produced by Delta11 desaturation of octadecanoic acid followed by one round of chain-shortening. In contrast, H. virescens used hexadecanoic acid as a substrate to form (Z)11-hexadecenal and (Z)11-hexadecenol and hexadecenal. H. virescens also produced (Z)9-tetradecenal by Delta11 desaturation of the hexadecanoic acid followed by one round of chain-shortening and reduction. Tetradecanoic acid was not utilized as a precursor to form Z9-14:Ald in H. virescens. This labeling pattern indicates that the Delta11 desaturase is the only active desaturase present in the pheromone gland cells of both species.
,   Whether ocular orientation to gravity is produced solely by linear acceleration in the horizontal plane of the head or depends on both horizontal and vertical components of the acceleration of gravity is controversial. Here, we compared orienting eye movements of rabbits during head tilt to those produced by centrifugation that generated centripetal acceleration along the naso-occipital (X-), bitemporal (Y-) and vertical (Z-) axes in a constant gravitational field. Sensitivities of ocular counter-pitch and vergence during pitch tilts were approximately 25 degrees /g and approximately 26 degrees /g, respectively, and of ocular counter-roll during roll tilts was approximately 20 degrees /g. During X-axis centripetal acceleration with 1 g of gravity along the Z-axis, pitch and vergence sensitivities were reduced to approximately 13 degrees /g and approximately 16 degrees /g. Similarly, Y-axis acceleration with 1g along the Z-axis reduced the roll sensitivity to approximately 16 degrees /g. Modulation of Z-axis centripetal acceleration caused sensitivities to drop by approximately 6 degrees /g in pitch, approximately 2 degrees /g in vergence, and approximately 5 degrees /g in roll. Thus, the constant 1g acceleration along the Z-axis reduced the sensitivity of ocular orientation to linear accelerations in the horizontal plane. Orienting responses were also modulated by varying the head Z-axis acceleration; the sensitivity of response to Z-axis acceleration was linearly related to the response to static tilt. Although the sign of the Z-axis modulation is opposite in the lateral-eyed rabbit from that in frontal-eyed species, these data provide evidence that the brain uses both the horizontal and the vertical components of acceleration from the otolith organs to determine the magnitude of ocular orientation in response to linear acceleration.
,   To investigate potential associations between A-13G and G79A polymorphisms of the protein Z gene and venous thrombosis and other clinical manifestations in Italian patients with Behçet's disease (BD). Italian patients who satisfied the International Study Group criteria for BD and 134 healthy age- and sex- matched blood donors were genotyped for A-13G and G79A polymorphisms of the protein Z gene by molecular methods. 113 and 112 of the 176 BD patients were also genotyped for factor V Leiden and prothrombin gene G20210A polymorphisms. Serological HLA class B51 typing was performed by a standard microlymphocytotoxicity technique. The patients were subgrouped according to the presence or absence of clinical manifestations. distribution of allele and genotype frequencies of A-13G and G79A polymorphisms did not differ significantly between BD patients and healthy controls.The frequencies of carriage rates of protein Z G79A and A-13G polymorphisms in BD patients with and without DVT were similar. Similarly, no associations between thrombotic events and the protein Z gene polymorphisms studied were observed in BD patients carrying factor V Leiden or prothrombin gene G20210A mutations. No significant associations were observed between protein Z polymorphisms and the occurrence of specific clinical findings.association between DVT and A-13G or G79A polymorphisms of the protein Z gene was found in Italian BD patients. Furthermore, these protein Z polymorphisms in BD do not seem to increase the risk of DVT due to factor V Leiden or prothrombin gene G20210A mutations.
,   A procedure has been developed for the purification of Z-type alpha-1-antitrypsin (alpha-1-AT) which is rapid, gentle, and results in good yields. From 4 units (750 ml) of fresh human plasma, obtained from two individuals possessing the Pizz phenotype, 53 mg of pure Z-type alpha-1-AT was obtained. The preparation was homogeneous by the criteria of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, both in the presence and absence of sodium dodecyl sulfate, and by analytical ultracentrifugation. When compared to pure alpha-1-AT from plasma of individuals possessing the normal PiMM phenotype, the two proteins were indistinguishable with respect to amino acid composition, sedimentation coefficient (s20w of 3.33 for both M and Z), molecular weight (51,000 by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis and 47,000 by sedimentation equilibrium for both M and Z), and trypsin-combining ratio (0.91 for Z and 0.99 for M). The only difference which was observed between the variant forms of alpha-1-AT was in the carbohydrate composition. The Z-type alpha1-AT contains between 20 and 25% less carbohydrate than the M-type alpha-1-AT. Specifically, the Z-type alpha-1-AT is deficient in 1 glucosamine residue, 3 neutral sugar residues (1 mannose and 2 galactose), and 2 sialic acid residues. Although the Z-variant is deficient in sialic acid, its survival time in the serum of a rabbit was not significantly different from that of M-type alpha-1-AT.
,   Therapeutic application of virus-based delivery systems often implies a change of the tropism of these vectors. This can be achieved by insertion of polypeptides (e.g., antibody fragments) in viral coat proteins. Such fusion proteins have only been used in viral vectors so far and, as part of a virus, they have not been available for a detailed biophysical characterization. We analyzed a fusion protein called VP1-Z, which is based on the polyoma virus coat protein VP1 and protein Z. Protein Z is an engineered antibody-binding domain derived from protein A from Staphylococcus aureus. The fusion VP1-Z was constructed by insertion of protein Z in the HI-loop of VP1. As wild-type VP1, VP1-Z formed pentameric capsomers and assembled to VLPs in vitro. The stability of these particles was very similar compared to that of VLPs of wild-type VP1. Protein Z was fully structured in the fusion protein and was still capable of binding antibodies on the surface of VLPs of VP1-Z. Using this fusion protein, we could change the tropism of polyoma VLPs toward cells presenting on their surface the antigen of the coupled antibody.
,   Abnormal height and adiposity are observed after the Fontan operation. These abnormalities may be associated with worse functional outcome.analyzed data from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Pediatric Heart Network cross-sectional study of Fontan patients. Groups were defined by height (z-score<-1.5 or≥-1.5) and body mass index (body mass index [BMI] z-score<-1.5 or -1.5 to 1.5 or≥1.5). Associations of anthropometric measures with measurements from clinical testing (exercise, echocardiography, magnetic resonance imaging) were determined adjusting for demographics, anatomy, and pre-Fontan status. Relationships between anthropometric measures and functional health status (FHS) were assessed using the Child Health Questionnaire.n age of the cohort (n=544) was 11.9±3.4 years. Lower height-z patients (n=124, 23%) were more likely to have pre-Fontan atrioventricular valve regurgitation (P=.029), as well as orthopedic and developmental problems (both P<.001). Lower height-z patients also had lower physical and psychosocial FHS summary scores (both P<.01). Higher BMI-z patients (n=45, 8%) and lower BMI-z patients (n=53, 10%) did not have worse FHS compared to midrange BMI-z patients (n=446, 82%). However, higher BMI-z patients had higher ventricular mass-to-volume ratio (P=.03) and lower % predicted maximum work (P=.004) compared to midrange and lower BMI-z patients.ormal anthropometry is common in Fontan patients. Shorter stature is associated with poorer FHS and non-cardiac problems. Increased adiposity is associated with more ventricular hypertrophy and poorer exercise performance, which may have significant long-term implications in this at-risk population.
,   The present study investigated the pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides (tetraenes), the main alkamides in ECHINACEA preparations, in rats after a single oral dose administration of 2.5 mg/kg. Plasma, liver and 4 different brain regions (hippocampus, cerebral cortex, striatum and cerebellum) were collected after 8, 15, 30 minutes and 1, 2, 3 and 6 hours after oral dosing. Plasma and tissue concentrations were determined by a rapid (5 min) liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method with benzanilide as internal standard (IS) using the respective [M-H] (+) ions, M/Z = 248/152 for the dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides and M/Z = 198/105 for the IS. The lipophilic constituents were rapidly absorbed, with a T (max) of 15 minutes, distributed and appeared in the brain already within 8 minutes. The total amount of tetraenes in different brain parts was calculated as AUC (0-infinity) (range: 1764-6192 min x ng/g) and compared to the concentrations found in plasma (794 min x ng/mL) and liver tissues (1254 min x ng/g). The C (max) in plasma was 26.4 ng/mL, while the C (max) in the different brain regions varied between 33.8 ng/g and 46.0 ng/g. In the striatum the highest concentration and the longest elimination half-life of 253 minutes with a mean residence time of 323 minutes was detected. The results demonstrate that the dodeca-2 E,4 E,8 Z,10 E/ Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides are bioavailable in rats with a rapid passage across the blood-brain barrier.
,   Mammalian DAI (DNA-dependent activator of IFN-regulatory factors), an activator of the innate immune response, senses cytosolic DNA by using 2 N-terminal Z-DNA binding domains (ZBDs) and a third putative DNA binding domain located next to the second ZBD. Compared with other previously known ZBDs, the second ZBD of human DAI (hZbeta(DAI)) shows significant variation in the sequence of the residues that are essential for DNA binding. In this article, the crystal structure of the hZbeta(DAI)/Z-DNA complex reveals that hZbeta(DAI) has a similar fold to that of other ZBDs, but adopts an unusual binding mode for recognition of Z-DNA. A residue in the first beta-strand rather than residues in the beta-loop contributes to DNA binding, and part of the (alpha3) recognition helix adopts a 3(10) helix conformation. The role of each residue that makes contact with DNA was confirmed by mutational analysis. The 2 ZBDs of DAI can together bind to DNA and both are necessary for full B-to-Z conversion. It is possible that binding 2 DAIs to 1 dsDNA brings about dimerization of DAI that might facilitate DNA-mediated innate immune activation.
,   Our purpose in this study was to assess the radiation dose reduction and the actual exposed scan length of over-range areas using a spiral dynamic z-collimator at different beam pitches and detector coverage. Using glass rod dosimeters, we measured the unilateral over-range scan dose between the beginning of the planned scan range and the beginning of the actual exposed scan range. Scanning was performed at detector coverage of 80.0 and 40.0 mm, with and without the spiral dynamic z-collimator. The dose-saving ratio was calculated as the ratio of the unnecessary over-range dose, with and without the spiral dynamic z-collimator. In 80.0 mm detector coverage without the spiral dynamic z-collimator, the actual exposed scan length for the over-range area was 108, 120, and 126 mm, corresponding to a beam pitch of 0.60, 0.80, and 0.99, respectively. With the spiral dynamic z-collimator, the actual exposed scan length for the over-range area was 48, 66, and 84 mm with a beam pitch of 0.60, 0.80, and 0.99, respectively. The dose-saving ratios with and without the spiral dynamic z-collimator for a beam pitch of 0.60, 0.80, and 0.99 were 35.07, 24.76, and 13.51%, respectively. With 40.0 mm detector coverage, the dose-saving ratios with and without the spiral dynamic z-collimator had the highest value of 27.23% with a low beam pitch of 0.60. The spiral dynamic z-collimator is important for a reduction in the unnecessary over-range dose and makes it possible to reduce the unnecessary dose by means of a lower beam pitch.
,   Using deconvolved confocal microscopy of fluorescently labeled markers for z-disks, t-tubules and ryanodine receptors, we have examined sarcomere organization in cardiac myocytes from rat, rabbit and human. We show that sarcomeres exhibit dislocations in registration and occasionally more complex helicoidal topology. This organization was present at both slack ( approximately 1.8 microm) and long sarcomere lengths ( approximately 2.2 microm). Misregistrations in z-disks persisted over 15-20 sarcomere lengths and appeared to arise primarily from variations in fiber direction; particularly as myofibrils pass around nuclei. In addition, myofibrils twist along the cell length. T-tubules generally follow the sarcomere z-disks although additional elements bridging adjacent myofibrils and along the length of the myofibril are present to varying degrees in all cells. Ryanodine receptors (the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) release channel) are generally located within 250 nm of the local plane containing t-tubules and z-disks, but a small fraction ( approximately 2%) is found on longitudinal elements of the t-system between z-disks. The results are discussed with respect to the possible role(s) of such complex z-disk organization and z-disk dislocations in the maintenance of cell structure and sarcomere assembly. In addition, the non-planar organization of z-disks may be important in the propagation of local Ca(2+) waves which may have a useful role in helping maintain the uniformity of sarcomere activation in the presence of t-tubule remodeling.
,   This study was performed to ascertain whether a relationship exists between thyroid function and blood pressure in school-aged Chinese subjects without overt thyroid disease. A cross-sectional survey of 880 subjects (541 females and 339 males) aged 7-18 years in Bengbu, Anhui province was conducted. The investigation, which was based on a stratified random cluster sampling method, included a questionnaire and measurements of blood pressure, height, and body weight. Fasting blood samples were taken for measurements of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (FT(3)) and free thyroxine (FT(4)). Serum TSH and FT(3) were positively correlated with systolic and diastolic blood pressure Z scores (SBP-Z and DBP-Z) even after adjusting for body mass index (BMI) (P < 0.05) but no correlation was observed between FT(4) and SBP-Z or DBP-Z after comparable adjustments (P > 0.05). SBP-Z and DBP-Z in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism were significant higher than in euthyroid subjects (P < 0.05). Both SBP-Z and DBP-Z increased linearly with TSH concentration in boys after adjusting BMI (P < 0.05); however, a similar linear trend was not observed in girls. Our findings support the hypothesis that elevated TSH and FT(3) concentrations increase blood pressure in school-aged Chinese subjects without overt thyroid disease; this increase may be even more significant in boys.
,   5(S)-Hydroxy-6,8,11,14-E,Z,Z,Z-eicosatetraenoate (5-HETE) causes PC3 cells to grow by an unknown mechanism. We find that it also induces the cells to activate extracellular signal-regulated kinases and Akt. Pertussis toxin inhibits both responses. 5-HETE, 5-oxo-6,8,11,14-E,Z,Z,Z-eicosatetraenoate, and 5-oxo-15-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoate are known to stimulate leukocytes by a receptor coupled to pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. Their respective relative potencies in leukocytes are 1, 10, and 3. In PC3 cells, however, these values are 10, 1, and 0. PC3 cells, we propose, express a non-leukocyte-type, G protein-coupled, 5-HETE receptor. This novel receptor and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase and Akt pathways it recruits may contribute to the progression of prostate adenocarcinoma.
,   The aim was to describe the prescription patterns of benzodiazepines (BZD) and cyclopyrrolones (Z-drugs) in a population of medical and surgical patients prior to, during and after hospital admission.a were collected from medical records, the physicians' order entry system and the national electronic pharmacy registry.rall, 38% of the 135 included patients did not receive BZD/Z-drugs at any time. A total of 30% were pre-admission users. While in hospital, 50% were users and 17% were users at discharge and 30% during the six months follow-up period (p < 0.0001). Changes in the usage pattern were mainly due to a significant increase in Z-drug use during hospital admission combined with a decrease in BZD and Z-drug use at discharge. During hospitalisation, 40% of the 94 pre-admission non-users of BZD/Z-drugs received BZD/Z-drugs. At the time of discharge, 61% of pre-admission users had become non-users, and 8.5% of the non-users had become users. Over the 6-month post-discharge period, 29 patients (21%) received >or= 3 prescriptions for BZD/Z-drugs (chronic users) compared with 21 (16%) before admission.ical and surgical hospitalized patients are frequently treated with Z-drugs and BZDs prior to, during and after hospital admission. The usage pattern changes significantly during hospital admission, with more prescriptions for Z-drugs being issued.
,   Alpha-1-antitrypsin (a1AT) deficiency is caused by homozygosity for the a1AT mutant Z gene and occurs in one in 2000 Americans. The Z mutation confers an abnormal conformation on the a1AT mutant Z protein, resulting in accumulation within the endoplasmic reticulum of hepatocytes and chronic liver injury. Autophagy is one of several proteolytic mechanisms activated to cope with this hepatocellular protein burden, and is likely important in disposal of the unique polymerized conformation of the a1AT mutant Z protein, which is thought to be especially injurious to the cell. Recent data indicate that rapamycin may more efficiently upregulate autophagy when given in weekly dose pulses, as compared with a daily regimen. Therefore, we evaluated the effect of rapamycin on PiZ mice, a well-characterized model which recapitulates human a1AT liver disease. Daily dosing had no effect on autophagy, on accumulation of a1AT mutant Z protein or on liver injury. Weekly dosing of rapamycin did increase autophagic activity, as shown by increased numbers of autophagic vacuoles. This was associated with reduction in the intrahepatic accumulation of a1AT mutant Z protein in the polymerized conformation. Markers of hepatocellular injury, including cleavage of caspase 12 and hepatic fibrosis, were also decreased. In conclusion, this is the first report of a successful in vivo method for reduction of intrahepatic a1AT mutant Z polymerized protein. Application of this finding may be therapeutic in patients with a1AT deficiency by reducing the intracellular burden of the polymerized, mutant Z protein and by reducing the progression of liver injury.
,   To explore the curative effects on surgical methods for the prevention of Frey syndrome and a concave facial deformity after parotidectomy.iterature search was performed using the Wianfang Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Disk Database, Chinese Digital Hospital Library and Chinese Scientific Journals Database of VIP from January 1989 to December 2008. Twenty-six Chinese language controlled studies involving surgical techniques for prevention of Frey syndrome and the concave facial deformity after parotidectomy were identified. Review manager 4.2 software was applied for Meta analysis.a-analysis for surgical techniques to prevent symptomatic Frey syndrome, a positive starch-iodine test, and contour deformity, favored intervention with a cumulative odds ratio (OR) of 0.14 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.07-0.25]; OR, 0.21 (95% CI, 0.17-0.26); and OR, 0.09 (95% CI, 0.04-0.19), respectively. There was a significant difference in the incidence of these complications between surgical treatment groups and control groups (Z = 6.42, Z = 13.70, Z = 6.43, all P < 0.05). The application of a sternocleidomastoid muscle flap decreased the incidence of symptomatic Frey syndrome (Z = 2.33, P < 0.05), positive starch-iodine test (Z = 7.48, P < 0.05) and contour deformity (Z = 7.78, P < 0.05). The application of acellular dermal matrix decreased the incidence of symptomatic Frey syndrome (Z = 6.02, P < 0.05) and positive starch-iodine test (Z = 5.72, P < 0.05) but did not decrease the incidence of contour deformity (Z = 1.27, P > 0.05).a-analysis of operative techniques to prevent symptomatic Frey syndrome, a positive starch-iodine test, and facial asymmetry suggests that such methods are likely to reduce the incidence of these complications and improve the quality of life after parotidectomy.
,   Z-GP-Dox, the FAPα (fibroblast activation protein-α)-based doxorubicin prodrug, demonstrates excellent tumor targeting effects and a favorable toxicokinetic profile. However, the insoluble nature of Z-GP-Dox becomes a significant barrier to drug administration, particularly when it comes to the clinical stage. Here we developed a nanomicelle system to facilitate the systemic delivery of Z-GP-Dox, and evaluated its disposition in rats following administration of the micelles using a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model. Z-GP-Dox-loaded mixed nanomicelles (ZGD-MNs) were prepared by dispersion of an ethanol solution of Z-GP-Dox, lecithin, and sodium oleate in water. The obtained ZGD-MNs were 86.6 nm in size with a drug loading of 14.03%. ZGD-MNs were fairly stable in phosphate-buffered saline and showed satisfactory physical and chemical stability over a 2-week observation period. Accumulative drug release was more than 56% within 24 hours. Further, the physiologically-based pharmacokinetic rat model consisting of various organs (ie, heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, and intestine) was fitted to the experimental data following administration of ZGD-loaded cosolvent (control) or micelles. Derived partition coefficient values revealed that the nanomicelles significantly altered the biodistribution of Z-GP-Dox. Of note, drug distribution to the lung, liver, and spleen was greatly enhanced and the fold change ranged from 2.4 to 33. In conclusion, this is the first report of a mixed micelle system being a viable carrier for delivery of Z-GP-Dox. Also, the pharmacokinetic behavior of Z-GP-Dox was satisfactorily described by the physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model. 
,   Ternary hexagonal Ae(5)Tt(3)Z phases have been obtained from high-temperature reactions (1000-1300 degrees C in Ta) only for Ae (alkaline-earth metal) = Ca, Tt (tetrel) = Pb, and Z = V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Zn, Ru, or Cd. The hexagonal crystal structures (stuffed Mn(5)Si(3)-type, P6(3)/mcm, Z = 2) were refined for Z = Mn and Fe (a = 9.3580(3), 9.3554(5) A, c = 7.009(1), 7.009(1) A, respectively). In contrast, Ca(5)Pb(3)Z for Z = Cu or Ag form only with a trigonal structure (P3c1, Z = 2, a = 9.4130(3) A, c = 7.052(1) A for Cu) in which regular displacements of only the linear strings of Ca1 atoms occur. The existence of these compounds stands in contrast to the nonexistence of all binary Ae(5)Tt(3) products from Ca to Ba (Ae) and Si to Pb (Tt) with a Mn(5)Si(3)-type structure. Therefore, it once seemed attractive to consider the Z elements in these Ca(5)Pb(3)Z compounds as reducing agents (electron donors). The Mn and Fe structures appropriately exhibit greatly enlarged antiprismatic calcium cavities about Z. Other indications of relatively electron-poor environments around Fe are found in its properties, which include soft ferromagnetism with an elevated magnetic moment (6.3 micro(B)) and a large Fe 3p(3/2) binding energy relative to that in La(5)Ge(3)Fe, La(15)Ge(9)Fe, etc. The Ca(5)Pb(3)Mn phase exhibits metallic behavior (rho(295) = 135 microOmega cm) and temperature-independent Pauli paramagnetism. These properties are supported by ab initio band structure calculations for Ca(5)Pb(3)Mn, which show strong Ca-Pb bonding and a broad Pb-based band, with appreciable Ca-Mn and Ca-Pb bonding states at and above E(F). Distortion of the Cu analogue gives strengthened Ca-Pb bonding and reduced Cu-Ca1 repulsions. A Zintl phase description of these compounds and some related compounds in terms of closed Pb bands is not appropriate.
,   [reaction: see text] Triethylborane-induced hydrometalation of alkynes proceeds in an anti manner to afford the corresponding (Z)-alkenylmetal compounds stereoselectively, where dichloroindium hydride would play a key role. A variety of functional groups including hydroxy, carbonyl, and carboxy groups were tolerant under the reaction conditions. Following iodolysis and cross-coupling reaction of the (Z)-alkenylmetal species show the usefulness of this strategy.
,   An unprecedented Pd-catalyzed hydrohalogenation of alkynyl halides for the regio- and stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-1,2-dihaloalkenes has been realized using [(allyl)PdCl](2) as the catalyst and cis,cis-1,5-cyclooctadiene as the ligand. The advantages of this protocol are well illustrated by the assembly of trisubstituted (Z)-enynes and multifunctional benzenes via iterative cross-coupling reactions or tandem Diels-Alder-aromatization reactions, respectively.
,   Hydride addition to either an 80:20 or a 93:7 E/Z isomer ratio of coordinated imine complex 2a occurs with high diastereoselectivity. The high diastereoselectivity regardless of the reagent E/Z ratio is explained by a difference between the relative kinetic acidities of the E and Z isomers of the imine complex. The kinetic acidities of related isopropylimine and 3-pentylimine complexes were used in explaining these results.
,   Axially localized NaF dopants are coated onto Al cylindrical wire arrays in order to act as spectroscopic tracers in the stagnated z-pinch plasma. Non-local-thermodynamic-equilibrium kinetic models fit to Na K-shell lines provide an independent measurement of the density and temperature that is consistent with spectroscopic analysis of K-shell emissions from Al and an alloyed Mg dopant. Axial transport of the Na dopant is observed, enabling quantitative study of instabilities in dense z-pinch plasmas.
,   Aliphatic aldehydes were reacted with nitro alkanes in the presence of catalytic amounts of piperidine over 4 A molecular sieves. Simply by changing reaction conditions (solvent and temperature) it is possible to control the stereochemical outcome of the reactions, obtaining pure (E)- and (Z)-nitro alkenes in high to excellent yields. The role of molecular sieves on the stereochemical control seems crucial in addition to that of piperidine, especially for the synthesis of the Z isomer.
,   Targeting drugs for delivery and release has the potential to increase the efficacy of treatment. A bifunctional linker, A-Z-CINN Linker was used to create a targeted prodrug, A-Z-CINN 310. A-Z-CINN Linker links to a potent chemotherapeutic agent, paclitaxel, via an energy-reversible ester bond and also binds a targeting agent, the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab (Herceptin). This study demonstrates the effectiveness of a single-treatment use of A-Z-CINN 310 in decreasing tumor volume and tumor cell density of human HER-2-positive BT-474 mammary tumor cells implanted in scid mice, compared to treatment with simultaneously administered trastuzumab and paclitaxel and with saline control. After treatment with A-Z-CINN 310, some mice received light exposure at 6 h for 5 min adjacent to the tumor to cause light-accelerated release of paclitaxel. Changes in tumor volume were measured for 28 days following treatment; changes in histology were measured at 31 days. Animals treated with A-Z-CINN 310, then light, showed dose-dependent decreases in tumor volume and tumor cell density which were more rapid and extensive than those seen with A-Z-CINN 310 without light or a 10-fold higher concentration of co-administered trastuzumab plus paclitaxel. This suggests that targeted delivery of paclitaxel using A-Z-CINN 310 kills tumor cells by localized release of paclitaxel at the tumor site, which can be accelerated by light treatment. These results indicate that a targeted prodrug therapy containing trastuzumab as the targeting agent and A-Z-CINN-paclitaxel as the prodrug results in a conjugate that is more effective in killing tumor cells than equivalent concentrations of co-administered trastuzumab and paclitaxel. Targeting of a drug can reduce the dose needed for effective therapy and can increase local bioavailability. This makes targeted therapy using an A-Z-CINN prodrug delivery system feasible for treating both primary and metastatic tumors.
,   A new cytotoxic diterpene, (Z)-sarcodictyin A, was isolated from the Japanese soft coral Bellonella albiflora.(1) Its structure was elucidated on the basis of 1D and 2D NMR analysis and chemical degradation. (Z)-Sarcodictyin A showed strong cytotoxicity against HeLa human cervix cells.
,   To examine the effects of confinement, or low-entropy environments, we employed the mesoporous silicate MCM-41 modified with optically active benzenetetracarboxylates as chiral reaction media to effect the enantiodifferentiating photoisomerization of (Z)-cyclooctene and (Z,Z)-1,5-cyclooctadiene. The ee of the (E)-isomer produced and its temperature dependence behavior in MCM-41 were completely different from those observed in homogeneous solutions. Immobilizing the sensitizer in MCM-41 reduced the contribution of the entropy factor.
,   Moths belonging to the speciesSpodoptera sunia have been recognized as a new pest of cotton in Central America. By means of electro-physiologic investigations, solid sample injection gas chromatography, and combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate, (9Z,12E)-9,12-tetradecadienyl acetate, (Z)-9-tetradecen-1-ol, and (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate, in a ratio of 100∶5∶31∶20, were identified in the pheromone gland of female insects. These substances should serve as a base for the development of a pheromone-monitoring system for this lepidopteran pest. 
,   The total syntheses of cyclic nitrone-containing phlegmarine-type Lycopodium alkaloids, lycoposerramines-X and -Z, were accomplished starting from (R)-3-methylcyclohexanone via Pd-catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura coupling, Johnson-Claisen rearrangement, stereoselective hydroboration-oxidation reaction, and Mitsunobu reaction, thereby establishing the structures including the absolute configuration.
,   The mechanism and origins of Z-selectivity in olefin metathesis with chelated Ru catalysts were explored using density functional theory. The olefin approaches from the "side" position of the chelated Ru catalysts, in contrast to reactions with previous unchelated Ru catalysts that favor the bottom-bound pathway. Steric repulsions between the substituents on the olefin and the N-substituent on the N-heterocyclic carbene ligand lead to highly selective formation of the Z product.
,   We show that the dipole of the luminosity distance is a useful observational tool which allows us to determine the Hubble parameter as a function of redshift H(z). We determine the number of supernovae needed to achieve a given precision for H(z) and to distinguish between different models for dark energy. We analyze a sample of nearby supernovae and find a dipole consistent with the cosmic microwave background at a significance of more than 2alpha.
,   The title compound, C(8)H(7)Br(3), possesses normal geometrical parameters. There are two independent molecules; one shows whole-molecule disorder with respect to an inversion-symmetry-generated partner, while the other is undisordered. This results in the unusual situation of Z' = 1.5 and Z = 6 for a monoclinic crystal system. The undisordered molecule interacts with its neighbours by way of pi-pi stacking.
,   The Z plasty is a common procedure used in scar revision. It is used to break the line of a scar. It can also be used to change the direction of a scar. This article presents a mathematical model to help select an appropriate angled Z to enable the planned change in the direction of the final scar.
,   Using oscillating optical tweezers, we show that controlled alignment of rod-shaped bacterial cells allows imaging fluorescently labeled three-dimensional (3D) subcellular structures from different, optimized viewpoints. To illustrate our method, we analyze the Z ring of E. coli. We obtain that the radial width of the Z ring in unconstricted cells is about 120 nm. This result suggests that the Z ring consists of an extremely sparse network of FtsZ filaments.
,   This paper discusses the problem of diffraction tomography, when a general beam wave is used as the excitation and the three-dimensional structure of the object is considered. The special case of a zero-order beam wave with measurements of the average of the scattered field in the z direction is detailed. It is shown that in this case a reconstruction algorithm identical to the two-dimensional geometry yields a z-averaged tomogram of the inhomogeneity.
,   An efficient method for generation of alpha-lambda3-iodanyl ketones from (Z)-(2-acetoxyvinyl)(phenyl)-lambda3-iodanes was developed. The method involves ester exchange of (Z)-2-acetoxyvinyl-lambda3-iodanes with methanol in the presence of triethylamine. alpha-lambda3-Iodanyl ketones react with a variety of nucleophiles such as halides, thiols, phosphines, phosphinic acids, and phosphates, under the conditions which produce alpha-functionalized carbonyl compounds probably via an S(N)2 pathway.
,   Nucleic acids control the expression of genes, and different conformations of DNA structure may regulate cell death. Left-handed Z-DNA, which is speculated to function as a transcriptional enhancer, may be directly influenced by the destructive effects of terminal differentiation. The nicking-denaturation of double-stranded Z-DNA could possibly initiate and enhance terminal differentiation within specific tissues.
,   A prominent feature of striated muscle is the regular lateral alignment of adjacent sarcomeres. An important intermyofibrillar linking protein is the intermediate filament protein desmin, and based on biochemical and structural studies in primary cultures of myocytes it has been proposed that desmin interacts with the sarcomeric protein nebulin. Here we tested whether nebulin is part of a novel biomechanical linker complex, by using a recently developed nebulin knockout (KO) mouse model and measuring Z-disk displacement in adjacent myofibrils of both extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus muscle. Z-disk displacement increased as sarcomere length (SL) was increased and the increase was significantly larger in KO fibers than in wild-type (WT) fibers; results in 3-day-old and 10-day-old mice were similar. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed reduced levels of desmin in intermyofibrillar spaces adjacent to Z-disks in KO fibers compared with WT fibers. We also performed siRNA knockdown of nebulin and expressed modules within the Z-disk portion of nebulin (M160-M170) in quail myotubes and found that this prevented the mature Z-disk localization of desmin filaments. Combined, these data suggest a model in which desmin attaches to the Z-disk through an interaction with nebulin. Finally, because nebulin has been proposed to play a role in specifying Z-disk width, we also measured Z-disk width in nebulin KO mice. Results show that most Z-disks of KO mice were modestly increased in width (approximately 80 nm in soleus and approximately 40 nm in EDL fibers) whereas a small subset had severely increased widths (up to approximately 1 microm) and resembled nemaline rod bodies. In summary, structural studies on a nebulin KO mouse show that in the absence of nebulin, Z-disks are significantly wider and that myofibrils are misaligned. Thus the functional roles of nebulin extend beyond thin filament length regulation and include roles in maintaining physiological Z-disk widths and myofibrillar connectivity.
,   The addition of bis(trimethylsilyl)acetylene to diarylacetylenes proceeds efficiently and selectively in a formal anti fashion in the presence of [Rh(OH)(cod)]2/bisphosphine and phenol as catalyst and activator, respectively, accompanied by cleavage of one of the C-Si bonds to produce the corresponding (Z)-enynes. The products can further couple with the same or a different diarylacetylene molecule to give rise to (Z,Z)-1,2,5,6-tetraaryl-1,5-hexadien-3-ynes that show relatively strong solid-state fluorescence.
,   Methanocorpusculum labreanum is a methanogen belonging to the order Methanomicrobiales within the archaeal kingdom Euryarchaeota. The type strain Z was isolated from surface sediments of Tar Pit Lake in the La Brea Tar Pits in Los Angeles, California. M. labreanum is of phylogenetic interest because at the time the sequencing project began only one genome had previously been sequenced from the order Methanomicrobiales. We report here the complete genome sequence of M. labreanum type strain Z and its annotation. This is part of a 2006 Joint Genome Institute Community Sequencing Program project to sequence genomes of diverse Archaea.
,   Affibody molecules are a novel class of tumour-targeting proteins, which combine small size (7 kDa) and picomolar affinities. The Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342) has been suggested for imaging of HER2 expression in order to select patients for trastuzumab therapy. When optimizing chelators for (99m)Tc-labelling, we have found that synthetic Z(HER2:342) conjugated with mercaptoacetyl-glycyl-glycyl-glycyl (maGGG) and mercaptoacetyl-glycyl-seryl-glycyl (maGSG) chelators provides relatively low renal uptake of radioactivity and could be suitable for therapy.GG-Z(HER2:342) and maGSG-Z(HER2:342) were labelled with (186)Re and their biodistribution was studied in normal mice. Dosimetric evaluation and tumour targeting to HER2-overexpressed xenografts (SKOV-3) by (186)Re-maGSG-Z(HER2:342) were studied.conate-mediated labelling of maGGG-Z(HER2:342) and maGSG-Z(HER2:342) with (186)Re provided a yield of more than 95% within 60 min. The conjugates were stable and demonstrated specific binding to HER2-expressing SKOV-3 cells. Biodistribution in normal mice demonstrated rapid blood clearance, low accumulation of radioactivity in the kidney and other organs, accumulating free perrhenate. Both (186)Re-maGGG-Z(HER2:342) and (186)Re-maGSG-Z(HER2:342) demonstrated lower renal uptake than their (99m)Tc-labelled counterparts. (186)Re-maGSG-Z(HER2:342) provided the lowest uptake in healthy tissues. Biodistribution of (186)Re-maGSG-Z(HER2:342) in nude mice bearing SKOV-3 xenografts showed specific targeting of tumours. Tumour uptake 24 h after injection (5.84+/-0.54%ID/g) exceeded the concentration in blood by more than 500-fold, and uptake in kidneys by about 8-fold. Preliminary dosimetric evaluation showed that dose-to-tumour should exceed dose-to-kidney by approximately 5-fold.imization of chelators improves biodistribution properties of rhenium-labelled small scaffold proteins and enables selection of promising radiotherapeutic agents based on the Affibody molecule.
,   A double Z pinch driving a cylindrical secondary hohlraum from each end has been developed which can indirectly drive intertial confinement fusion capsule implosions with time-averaged radiation fields uniform to 2%-4%. 2D time-dependent view factor and 2D radiation hydrodynamic simulations using the measured primary hohlraum temperatures show that capsule convergence ratios of at least 10 with average distortions from sphericity of <Delta r>/r<or=30% are possible on the Z accelerator and may meet radiation symmetry requirements for scaling to fusion yields of >200 MJ.
,   In this article, the authors compare the assay performance measures, signal window, Z' factor, and assay variability ratio. They examine their mathematical formulae for similarities and differences, describe their statistical sampling properties using the results of a computer simulation, and illustrate their use with example data. Based on these results, the authors recommend the Z' factor as a preferred measure of assay performance for screening assays and point out that none of these measures are adequate for characterizing concentration-response assays.
,   We aimed to determine whether A-13G or G79A polymorphisms of the protein Z gene that have been reported to be an important determinant of blood concentrations of protein Z are associated with risk of ischemic stroke in a broad range of stroke patients and controls.conducted a case control study of 151 hospital cases of first-ever ischemic stroke and 164 randomly selected community controls. Protein Z genotype was determined for the A-13G promoter polymorphism and the G79A intron F polymorphism, and plasma protein Z concentrations were measured during the first 7 days and at 3 to 6 months after the acute stroke event.metric mean concentrations of protein Z measured within 7 days of acute stroke were significantly higher in cases compared with controls (1.51 microg/mL versus 1.13 microg/mL; P<0.0001). Protein Z concentrations were highest among subjects with the A-13G AA genotype, intermediate among those with the AG genotype, and lowest among those with the GG genotype (1.39 microg/mL versus 1.05 microg/mL versus 0.76 microg/mL; P<0.0001); and highest among those with the G79A GG genotype, intermediate among those with the GA genotype, and lowest among those with the AA genotype (1.47 microg/mL versus 1.13 microg/mL versus 0.66 microg/mL; P<0.0001). The prevalence of A-13G and G79A genotypes was not significantly different between cases of ischemic stroke and controls. However, compared with the G79A GG genotype (reference), the odds of ischemic stroke was progressively lower for the heterozygote GA (odds ratio [OR], 0.83; 95% CI, 0.52 to 1.33) and the homozygote AA genotype (OR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.20 to 1.98). A pooled analysis showed that compared with the G79A GG genotype (reference), the odds of ischemic stroke was progressively lower for the heterozygote GA (OR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.57 to 1.07) and the homozygote AA genotype (OR, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.14 to 0.69). consistency of the association between protein Z genotypes, blood concentrations of protein Z, and ischemic stroke, determined using 2 different methods that have different sources of bias strengthens the evidence that increased blood concentrations of protein Z concentrations are associated causally with an increased risk of ischemic stroke.
,   Chloroplast DNAs from six different laboratory collections of Euglena gracilis "strain Z" and var. bacillaris were analyzed with restriction endonucleases EcoRI and Bam HI. The most variable portion of the organelle genome is the region containing the ribosomal cistrons. Intraspecific differences occur in both ribosomal DNA cistron number (one or three) and structural organization among those strains designated as "strain Z" and bacillaris. One culture previously designated as "Z" is most likely bacillaris. 
,   FtsZ is a prokaryotic homolog of eukaryotic tubulin and forms the essential bacterial cell division ring (Z-ring). A new study in this issue of Chemistry & Biology, Läppchen et al., provides further evidence that differences in nucleotide-binding properties of FtsZ and tubulin can be exploited to specifically target the bacterial Z-ring.
,   The potassium salt of E- and Z-2,3-diphenylpropenoic acids prepared in situ could be esterified efficiently in DMSO with the appropriate alkyl halides at room temperature. In this way 10 previously undescribed esters of these acids were synthesised and characterised. Excellent yields were observed for most of the E isomers and the more hindered Z esters were also obtained in good yields, far better than those obtained applying the classical acid-catalysed esterification reaction.
,   We present a single beam Z-scan technique using an intense, broadband, white-light continuum (WLC) beam for the direct measurement of nonlinear absorption spectra. In order to demonstrate the validity of our technique, we compared the results of tetraaniline and Sudan 3 solutions obtained with WLC and conventional single wavelength light sources. Both approaches lead to the same nonlinear spectrum, indicating that the association of the Z-scan technique and the WLC source results in an useful method for the measurement of nonlinear spectra of both absorbing (saturable absorption or reverse saturable absorption) and transparent (two-photon absorption) samples.
,   We previously identified a specific activation-dependent interaction between the alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein, G(z), and a regulator of Rap1 signaling, Rap1GAP (Meng, J., Glick, J. L., Polakis, P., and Casey, P. J. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 36663-36669). We now demonstrate that activated forms of Galpha(z) are able to recruit Rap1GAP from a cytosolic location to the membrane. Using PC12 cells as a model for neuronal differentiation, the influence of G(z) activation on Rap1-mediated cell differentiation was examined. Introduction of constitutively-activated Galpha(z) into PC12 cells markedly attenuated the differentiation process of these cells induced by a cAMP analogue. Treatment of PC12 cells expressing wild type Galpha(z) with a specific agonist to the alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptor also attenuated cAMP-induced PC12 cell differentiation, demonstrating that receptor-mediated activation of G(z) was also effective in this regard. Furthermore, activation of G(z) decreased the ability of the cAMP analogue to trigger both Rap1 and extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) activation. Differentiation of PC12 cells induced by nerve growth factor (NGF) is also thought to be a Rap1-mediated process, and G(z) activation was found to attenuate this process as well. Rap1 activation, ERK phosphorylation, and PC12 cell differentation induced by NGF treatment were all significantly attenuated by either transfection of constitutively activated Galpha(z) or receptor-mediated G(z) activation. Based on these findings, a model is proposed in which activation of G(z) results in recruitment of Rap1GAP to the membrane where it can effectively down-regulate Rap1 signaling. The implications of these findings in regard to a possible role for G(z) in neuronal development are discussed.
,   A series of Cambridge Structural Database studies show that ionic species generally form low Z' structures, even in those cases where charge assisted hydrogen bonding is a key feature, e.g. oxo-anion complexes. By introducing a competing pi-pi stacking interaction, two oxo-anion compounds are shown to crystallise with more than one molecule in the asymmetric unit, including the first hydrogen phosphate containing structure to have Z' > 2.
,   We link two-allele population models by Haldane and Fisher with Kimura's diffusion approximations of the Wright-Fisher model, by considering continuous-state branching (CB) processes which are either independent (model I) or conditioned to have constant sum (model II). Recent works by the author allow us to further include logistic density-dependence (model III), which is ubiquitous in ecology. In all models, each allele (mutant or resident) is then characterized by a triple demographic trait: intrinsic growth rate r, reproduction variance sigma and competition sensitivity c. Generally, the fixation probability u of the mutant depends on its initial proportion p, the total initial population size z, and the six demographic traits. Under weak selection, we can linearize u in all models thanks to the same master formula u = p + p(1 - p)[g(r)s(r) + g(sigma)s(sigma) + g(c)s(c)] + o(s(r),s(sigma),s(c), where s(r) = r' - r, s(sigma) = sigma-sigma' and s(c) = c - c' are selection coefficients, and g(r), g(sigma), g(c) are invasibility coefficients (' refers to the mutant traits), which are positive and do not depend on p. In particular, increased reproduction variance is always deleterious. We prove that in all three models g(sigma) = 1/sigma and g(r) = z/sigma for small initial population sizes z. In model II, g(r) = z/sigma for all z, and we display invasion isoclines of the 'mean vs variance' type. A slight departure from the isocline is shown to be more beneficial to alleles with low sigma than with high r. In model III, g(c) increases with z like ln(z)/c, and g(r)(z) converges to a finite limit L > K/sigma, where K = r/c is the carrying capacity. For r > 0 the growth invasibility is above z/sigma when z < K, and below z/sigma when z > K, showing that classical models I and II underestimate the fixation probabilities in growing populations, and overestimate them in declining populations.
,   The title compound, C(7)H(8)N(2)O(2), is monoclinic (space group P2(1)/n) at 295 (2) K with Z' = 2. The two types of molecule form independent C(7) chains, and the structure is related to that of the low-temperature triclinic polymorph, where Z' = 4 in P1, by a simple displacive transformation.
,   We develops a theory of the Brownian motion of a rigid helical object such as bacterial flagella. The statistical properties of the random forces acting on the helical object are discussed and the coefficients of the correlations of the random forces are determined. The averages <z(2)(t)>, <theta(2)(t)> and <z(t)theta(t)> are also calculated where z and theta are the position along and angle around the helix axis respectively. Although the theory is limited to short time interval, direct comparison with experiment is possible by using the recently developed cinematography technique.
,   A real-time biospecific interaction analysis (BIA) was performed to study the specific interaction between the Fc portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (Fc1) and a one domain analogue (designated Z) of staphylococcal protein A, in monovalent (Z) and divalent (ZZ) forms, and five different single amino acid substituted Z variants (L17D, N28A, F30A, I31A, K35A). Experimental BIA data were used to calculate association rate constants (kon), dissociation rate constants (koff) and affinity constants (Kaff). The divalent form (ZZ) showed a higher affinity for Fc1 mainly because of a slower off rate. Out of the five mutant Z proteins, four (L17D, N28A, I31A, K35A) showed a decreased affinity to Fc1 compared to the parent Z molecule. Surprisingly, two (L17D, I31A) of these four had the major effect of a decreased binding energy as a lowered kon while the other two (N28A, K35A) mutant proteins showed an increased koff as the major kinetic difference from Z in their binding to Fc1. For five of the six different Z variants, as well as for the ZZ molecule, calculated Kaff and calculated differences in binding free energies relative to the parent Z molecule (delta delta G), are in good agreement with the corresponding values obtained in a competitive displacement assay using radioactively labeled Z as a tracer (Cedergren et al., (1993) Prot. Eng. 6, 441-448). However, the I31A variant, with a measured kon that was more than three orders of magnitude lower than that of Z in the BIA assay, showed a significantly weaker affinity to Fc1 when calculated from the BIA data compared to the competitive displacement assay. The discrepancy between these two methods for Z(I31A) is discussed as well as possible explanations for the unexpected large effect of lowered kon for two of the mutant Z proteins.
,   An unusual rhodium carbenoid approach for introduction of 4-substituted (Z)-pent-2-enoates into sterically encumbered pyrroles and indoles is described. These studies show that (Z)-vinylcarbenoids have a greater tendency than (E)-vinylcarbenoids to react at the vinylogous position of the carbenoid rather than at the carbenoid center.
,   Ring-closing alkene metatheses of trans,trans-(C6F5)(Ph2P-Z-CH=CH2)2Pt(C[triple bond]C)4Pt(Ph2P-Z-CH=CH2)2(C6F5) (Z = (CH2)9, (CH2)4O(CH2)2), followed by hydrogenation, give the title compounds; the former exhibits an exceptionally twisted conformation, and the latter establishes that functional groups can be incorporated into the flexible sp3 chain.
,   We have recently developed a spectral re-shaping technique to simultaneously measure nonlinear refractive index and nonlinear absorption. In this technique, the information about the nonlinearities is encoded in the frequency domain, rather than in the spatial domain as in the conventional Z-scan method. Here we show that frequency encoding is much more robust with respect to scattering. We compare spectral re-shaping and Z-scan measurements in a highly scattering environment and show that reliable spectral re-shaping measurements can be performed even in a regime that precludes standard Z-scans.
,   The arenavirus protein Z from Lassa fever virus was recently found to inhibit mRNA translation through direct interaction with eIF4E. Here, we report the NMR assignment of this RING-containing protein that was determined by triple resonance NMR techniques.
,   The title compound, C(24)H(21)N(3)O, was prepared by the reaction of (Z)-2-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl-ene)-1-aza-bicyclo-[2.2.2]octan-3-one with α-bromo-p-toluonitrile, under phase-transfer catalytic (PTC) conditions using triethyl-benzyl-ammonium chloride and 50% w/v aqueous NaOH solution in dichloro-methane. The crystal structure indicates the presence of a double bond with Z geometry connecting the aza-bicyclic and indole groups.
,   The title compound, C(25)H(24)N(2)O(3) was prepared by the reaction of (Z)-2-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl-ene)-1-aza-bicyclo-[2.2.2]octan-3-one with methyl p-(bromo-meth-yl)benzoate, under phase-transfer catalytic (PTC) conditions using triethyl-benzyl-ammonium chloride and 50% w/v aqueous NaOH solution in dichloro-methane. The crystal structure indicates the presence of a double bond with Z geometry connecting the aza-bicyclic and indole groups.
,   [reaction: see text] Acyclic psi[(E)-CH=CMe]- and psi[(Z)-CH=CMe]-type dipeptide isosteres were efficiently synthesized. In a key reaction, alpha-alkylation of gamma-mesyloxy-beta-methyl-alpha,beta-unsaturated esters with organocyanocuprates in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran preferentially afforded the psi[(E)-CH=CMe]- or psi[(Z)-CH=CMe]-isomer, respectively, via anti-S(N)2' mechanism.
,   Three different tests on houseflies (Musca domestica L.) revealed that both pheromone-free pseudoflies and male partner flies exhibit in the presence of mixtures of long-chain (Z)-9-alkenes or pure (Z)-9-tricosene enhanced releasing effects for two optical cues, which stimulate male houseflies to mating strikes and houseflies of both sexes to aggregation.
,   Synthesis of a model peptide Z-Ala-Val-Gly-OH catalyzed by ficin in phosphate buffer was studied with water-soluble esters Z-Ala-OCH2CO-Gly-OH and Z-Ala-OCH2CO-NHC2H4SO3Na as carboxyl components. The maximal yield of the peptide was obtained at pH 8-9. The effect of temperature and concentration of reagents was studied in the model reaction.
,   In the most current beam-propagation method (BPM), the coupling between the transverse and the longitudinal fields in z -dependent structures is ignored under the staircase approximation, which results in violation of power conservation. We propose a novel BPM that is derived in a local oblique coordinate system to analyze z -dependent structures accurately and efficiently without taking the staircase approximation. The coupling between the transverse and the longitudinal fields is automatically included in the local oblique coordinate system, and power is thus conserved if the reflection is neglected.
,   The authors present a case of congenital idiopathic brachymetatarsia of the fourth metatarsal. A combination of techniques was used to address the components of the deformity and its correction, which include preoperative soft tissue stretching, Z-skin plasty, Z-tendon lengthening, Z-lengthening metatarsal osteotomy with internal screw fixation, and bone allografting. Conventional autograft harvesting complications and external fixation were avoided. This case demonstrates the correction of a brachymetatarsal using combined and modified techniques.
,   A series of morinol-type lignans were rapidly assembled using a Grignard-based transmissive olefination. In combination with palladium-catalyzed arylations, the strategy provides stereoselective access to (7Z,7'E), (7E,7'E), and (7E,7'Z) morinol diastereomers and the (7Z,8'E) and (7E,8'E) conjugated analogues. Critical for the E/Z stereoselectivity is a new, general method for converting alkenenitriles to alkenemethanols that circumvents the enal E/Z isomerization commonly encountered during conventional i-Bu(2)AlH reduction.
,   C8-alkylamino substituted 2'-deoxyguanosine was incorporated into a DNA sequence and then labeled with pyrene. The conformational change from B- to Z-form was monitored using CD and fluorescence spectroscopy for both labeled and unlabeled ODNs.
,   The density of the M2 subtype of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR) has been shown to be reduced in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is therefore of interest to develop a brain imaging method for diagnostic purposes. Z-(R,R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetat e (Z-IQNP) is a muscarinic antagonist with high affinity for the M2 subtype. pharmacological characteristics and topographic distribution of radiolabelled Z-IQNP as a radioligand for the M2 mAChR subtype were examined in vitro and in vivo.QNP was labelled with 1251 and 123I. Autoradiography was performed on whole-hemisphere cryosections from human post mortem brains. SPECT was performed in a cynomolgus monkey.oradiography showed binding of [125I]Z-IQNP in all brain regions, which was inhibited by the non-selective muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. The addition of BIBN 99, a compound with high affinity for the M2 subtype, inhibited [125I]Z-IQNP binding particularly in the cerebellum, which has a high density of the M2 subtype. SPECT demonstrated high uptake of [123I]Z-IQNP in all brain regions. The binding was markedly reduced in all brain regions after pretreatment with the non-selective muscarinic antagonist dexetimide and also the M1 antagonist biperiden. Dexetimide markedly inhibited [123I]Z-IQNP binding in the cerebellum, which is consistent with a high density of M2-receptors in this region. The sigma receptor binding compound DuP 734 had no effect on Z-IQNP binding either in vitro or in vivo.s study indicates that radiolabelled Z-IQNP has high specificity for mAChR with higher affinity for the M2 than the M1 subtype and negligible affinity for sigma recognition sites both in vitro and in vivo. [123I]Z-IQNP should be useful for future SPECT studies in AD for examination of the density of M2 receptors particularly in the cerebellum.
,   A selective, efficient, and fast access to (Z,E)-2,7-bis(4-cyanobenzylidene)cycloheptan-1-one (BCBCH), precursor of the synthetic antagonist of tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA), is reported using a solid/solid aldolisation-crotonisation reaction on a supramolecular complex under microwave irradiation. The underlying mechanism is investigated from the crystal structure of the intermediate host-guest complex formed between permethylated gamma-cyclodextrin and (Z)-2-(4-cyanobenzylidene)cycloheptan-1-one.
,   Rate constants for the attachment of DABCO (1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane) to Fischer carbene complexes of the type (CO)(5)Cr=C(XR)C(6)H(4)Z (X = O and S) in dry MeCN at 25 degrees C are reported. Hammett rho values are 2.18 +/- 0.13 and 0.89 +/- 0.07 for DABCO reactions with (CO)(5)Cr=C(OMe)C(6)H(4)Z (10-Cr-Z) and (CO)(5)Cr=C(SMe)C(6)H(4)Z (11-Cr-Z), respectively. The rho values for the reaction of 10-Cr-Z and 11-Cr-Z with CH(CN)(2)(-) in 50% MeCN-50% H(2)O (v/v) are comparable to the present reactions. The reaction of DABCO with 10-Cr-Z is more closely related to the reaction of (n-Bu)(3)P with (CO)(5)W=C(OMe)C(6)H(5)-Z (23) which also provided a rho value 2.22. The much higher rho values and hence much higher reactivity of methoxy carbene complexes over the corresponding thiomethyl derivatives fit a pattern observed previously for alkoxide ion, OH(-), amine, and thiolate ion nucleophiles, and a rational explanation comes from the consideration of the substituent effects not only on the transition state but also on the reactant. A major difference between 10-Cr-Z and 11-Cr-Z is that the pi-donor effect of the methoxy group is much stronger than that of thiomethyl group. This leads to a substantial contribution of the zwitterionic form to the structure of 10-Cr-Z with much more localized positive charge on the methoxy group than the negative charge on the (CO)(5)Cr moiety. This leads to overall destabilization by an electron-withdrawing phenyl substituents resulting an increase in reactivity. The ethoxycarbene complexes are somewhat less reactive than their methoxy counterparts due to the somewhat more ground state stabilization through its stronger pi donor effect and partly due to steric crowding exerted by the slightly larger ethoxy group in the transition state. Higher k(1)(W)/k(1)(Cr) ratios for (thiomethyl)carbene complexes than methoxy or ethoxycarbene complexes are related to the intrinsic rate constant which is higher for ((thiomethyl)carbene)tungsten complexes than the corresponding Cr ones resulting in an enhanced ratio.
,   A novel and fully chemo- and stereoselective three component strategy leading to Z-α-chloroacrylates by a Pd(0)-catalyzed reaction of CO (1 atm) with 1,1-dichloro-1-alkenes and various alcohols is disclosed. This catalytic approach compares favourably with the Wittig type strategies as α-chloroacrylates of pure Z configuration are obtained in high yield.
,   We set out to assess the preference of patients with common cancers involving bone receiving intravenous bisphosphonate therapy for either pamidronate (P) or zoledronic acid (Z) and their preference for the location of the infusion (clinic or home). We also aimed to monitor these patients' renal safety, and to compare their time in clinic to receive P and Z infusions.olled in the study were 184 patients, and all received initial infusions of Z (so any first infusion reactions did not confound preferences for P). For their second and third infusions, patients were randomized to receive Z then P or P then Z, and questioned on their preferences. For up to 1 year they continued on Z infusions every 3-4 weeks, while their renal safety was monitored. Where practical, later infusions were given at home (rather than in the clinic) and patients questioned on their preferred infusion location. In a convenience subset of 43 patients, clinic use for Z and P infusions was also measured by timing infusions and other procedures.144 patients who received a third infusion, 138 responded to questions on bisphosphonate preference, and of these 138, 92% (127) preferred Z to P, because shorter infusions caused less disruption to their day. Only 12% of eligible patients (16/138) received home infusions, but 13/14 questioned preferred this location. Among 184 patients, 19 episodes of renal impairment were noted, mostly owing to disease progression (e.g. obstructive uropathy), with none linked to Z therapy. The mean clinic time taken to receive Z and any concomitant therapy was about half that for P (78 vs 161 min).cer patients prefer shorter bisphosphonate infusions-and at home, where practical. Regular Z 4 mg infusions appear to be safe in these patients, with routine monitoring of serum creatinine. Using Z rather than P could save busy cancer centres time and improve patient satisfaction.
,   The title compounds, both [Fe(C5H5)(C15H14NO2)], crystallize with Z'=2 in the centrosymmetric space group P-1. In each compound, there is an intramolecular N-H...O=C hydrogen bond, and pairs of intermolecular O-H...O=C hydrogen bonds link the molecules into chains, parallel to [110] in the 3-hydroxy compound and parallel to [101] in the 4-hydroxy compound.
,   Antisera and antibodies against Z-DNA were used on metaphasic fixed chromosomes of a mammal, Gerbillus nigeriae (Gerbillidae, Rodentia). By indirect immunofluorescence and indirect immunoperoxidase labelling a heavy staining was detected in a fraction of the R-band positive heterochromatic segments, which are presumed to be rich in G-C base pairs. A weak and non homogeneous staining was also observed on euchromatic segments. The presence of a left-handed Z-DNA in mammalian chromosomes is discussed.
,   We propose a picosecond single-beam open Z-scan experiment in which the usual apertured detection scheme is replaced by a two-dimensional single-shot CCD camera. This enables us to extract the two-dimensional transverse modifications of the whole far-f ield pattern that are due to nonlinear refraction as well as to measure the induced nonlinear phase shift with increased sensitivity compared with that of the conventional Z scan.
,   Binding of antitumoral preparations mitoxantrone and ametantrone with right and left helical DNA was investigated. B-Z conformational transition stimulated by NaCl in the molecules of poly[d(G.C)].poly[d(G-C)] in complex with mitoxantrone and ametantrone was studied by the method of circular dichroism. It was shown that these compounds disturb B-Z transition but do not inhibit it.
,   A cluster of simple repeated sequences composed of 5'-(GC)5(AC)18(AG)21(G)9(CAGA)4GAGGGAGAGAGGCAGAGAGGG(AG)27-3 ' located near the origin of replication associated with the Chinese hamster dhfr gene has been shown to adopt multiple Z-form and triplex DNA structures under various experimental conditions (Bianchi, A., Wells, R. D., Heintz, N. H., and Caddle, M. S. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 21789-21796). Thus, we refer to the cluster of alternating repeats as a Z-triplex DNA motif. Primer extension studies indicate that DNA polymerases traverse the Z-triplex sequence more readily in the Z to triplex direction than in the triplex to Z direction. To examine the effect of these sequences on replication fork travel in living cells, the Z-triplex motif was cloned in both orientations on the early and late side of the SV40 origin of replication in the vector pSV011. Test constructs were cotransfected along with pSV011 into COS-7 cells, and plasmid replication was monitored by the accumulation of DpnI-resistant replication products. A single copy of the Z-triplex motif reduced plasmid replication after 48 h by 20-50%, depending upon the position and orientation of the insert relative to the SV40 origin sequences. The replication of plasmids containing two copies of the Z-triplex motif, in different orientations on either side of the SV40 origin, was reduced by 85-95% as compared to the cotransfected control. Two-dimensional gel analysis of replication intermediates failed to show absolute termination of replication fork travel at the Z-triplex sequences, but rather indicated that the Z-triplex region causes replication intermediates to accumulate during the late phases of replication. These results indicate that the dhfr Z-triplex region has complex effects on both replication fork movement and the termination phases of episomal DNA synthesis in animal cells.
,   The ESC-E(Z) complex of Drosophila melanogaster Polycomb group (PcG) repressors is a histone H3 methyltransferase (HMTase). This complex silences fly Hox genes, and related HMTases control germ line development in worms, flowering in plants, and X inactivation in mammals. The fly complex contains a catalytic SET domain subunit, E(Z), plus three noncatalytic subunits, SU(Z)12, ESC, and NURF-55. The four-subunit complex is >1,000-fold more active than E(Z) alone. Here we show that ESC and SU(Z)12 play key roles in potentiating E(Z) HMTase activity. We also show that loss of ESC disrupts global methylation of histone H3-lysine 27 in fly embryos. Subunit mutations identify domains required for catalytic activity and/or binding to specific partners. We describe missense mutations in surface loops of ESC, in the CXC domain of E(Z), and in the conserved VEFS domain of SU(Z)12, which each disrupt HMTase activity but preserve complex assembly. Thus, the E(Z) SET domain requires multiple partner inputs to produce active HMTase. We also find that a recombinant worm complex containing the E(Z) homolog, MES-2, has robust HMTase activity, which depends upon both MES-6, an ESC homolog, and MES-3, a pioneer protein. Thus, although the fly and mammalian PcG complexes absolutely require SU(Z)12, the worm complex generates HMTase activity from a distinct partner set.
,   The relationship between Z vector components and excitation amplitudes is analyzed for several post-Hartree-Fock correlation methods limited to double excitation amplitudes. An analytical formula approximating the Z vector for the coupled cluster doubles method is presented and shown to be quite accurate. This approximation is also used to determine the prefactor of the norm of doubly excited states in averaged coupled pair functional-type energy functionals self-consistently leading to better agreement with coupled cluster results.
,   Photoisomerization presents the only direct method for contra-thermodynamic E-Z isomerization of olefins. Synthetic applications of this method have been limited by its reversible nature, which leads to a photostationary-state mixture of both isomers. For the first time, a highly efficient one-pot preparation-isolation of solid ionic liquid Z-cinnamic acids by photoisomerization in acetonitrile solution of ionic liquid E-cinnamic acids is described.
,   The hexamer duplex d(CGCGCA).d(TGCGCG) was crystallized with hexammineruthenium(III) ions in an orthorhombic space group; the crystals diffracted to 1.54 A resolution. Strong ion interactions with the adenine base induce a tautomeric shift from the amino to the imino form. Consequently, the A.T base pairing is disrupted. This structural study may be relevant to metal toxicity.
,   The [2+3] cycloaddition of 2-nitropropene to (Z)-C,N-diphenylnitrone leads to 3,4-trans-2,3-diphenyl-4-nitro-4-methyl- and 3,5-trans-2,3-diphenyl-5-nitro-5-methylisoxazolidines as primary reaction products. This, however, is not the only pathway of 2-nitropropene conversion. In the reaction conditions, the nitroalkene also undergoes isomerisation and the resulting trans- and cis-1-nitropropenes yield respective stereoisomeric 2,3-diphenyl-4-nitro-5-methylisoxazolidines in the reaction with (Z)-C,N-diphenylnitrone. 
,   We present a method to calculate the propensities of regions within a DNA molecule to transition from B-form to Z-form under negative superhelical stresses. We use statistical mechanics to analyze the competition that occurs among all susceptible Z-forming regions at thermodynamic equilibrium in a superhelically stressed DNA of specified sequence. This method, which we call SIBZ, is similar to the SIDD algorithm that was previously developed to analyze superhelical duplex destabilization. A state of the system is determined by assigning to each base pair either the B- or the Z-conformation, accounting for the dinucleotide repeat unit of Z-DNA. The free energy of a state is comprised of the nucleation energy, the sequence-dependent B-Z transition energy, and the energy associated with the residual superhelicity remaining after the change of twist due to transition. Using this information, SIBZ calculates the equilibrium B-Z transition probability of each base pair in the sequence. This can be done at any physiologically reasonable level of negative superhelicity. We use SIBZ to analyze a variety of representative genomic DNA sequences. We show that the dominant Z-DNA forming regions in a sequence can compete in highly complex ways as the superhelicity level changes. Despite having no tunable parameters, the predictions of SIBZ agree precisely with experimental results, both for the onset of transition in plasmids containing introduced Z-forming sequences and for the locations of Z-forming regions in genomic sequences. We calculate the transition profiles of 5 kb regions taken from each of 12,841 mouse genes and centered on the transcription start site (TSS). We find a substantial increase in the frequency of Z-forming regions immediately upstream from the TSS. The approach developed here has the potential to illuminate the occurrence of Z-form regions in vivo, and the possible roles this transition may play in biological processes.
,   As a complement to Pd(0)-catalyzed cyclizations, seven Pd(II)-catalyzed cyclization strategies are reported. α,ω-Diynes are selectively hydroborated to bis(boronate esters), which cyclize under Pd(II)-catalysis producing a diverse array of small, medium, and macrocyclic polyenes with controlled E,E, Z,Z, or E,Z stereochemistry. Various functional groups are tolerated including aryl bromides, and applications are illustrated.
,   Linkage data for familial incontinentia pigmenti (IP2) and 17 X chromosomal markers are reported. The linkage previously found between IP2 and the F8C locus is confirmed (Z max = 11.85 at theta = 0.028). Linkage is established with distal markers DXS1108 (Z max = 10.06 at theta = 0.00) and DXYS154 (Z = 9.07 at theta = 0.019). Multipoint analysis supports the distal localization of the IP2 gene with respect to the F8C locus.
,   The racemate of (Z)-exo-alpha-bergamotenal, a sex pheromone component of the white-spotted spined bug, was synthesized from racemic exo-alpha-bergamotene by a five-step sequence involving regioselective epoxidation and (Z)-selective Wittig olefination reactions. The 1H- and 13C-NMR spectra of the synthetic sample were identical with those of the natural material.
,   A three-point genetic linkage test was conducted to establish linear relationships of the Z-linked loci pop-eye (POP*), silver (S*), and rate of feathering (K*). Linkage values obtained in a back cross were POP* - 17.8 - S* - 2.4 - K* (n = 169). The POP* - K* distance was 19.0, supporting this linear order. The data support the previous assignment of POP* to the short arm of the Z chromosome. Based on previous reports, of the three loci studied, POP* is closest to the centromere.
,   (Z)-2-Enynyl-2-hydroxy-imidazolidine-4,5-diones 2 are synthesized for the first time via Cu(I)-mediated (Z)-selective geminal coupling among two molecules of terminal alkynes, carbodiimides, and oxalyl chloride. Further transformation of 2a is performed to yield a highly functionalized spiro heterocyclic compound 5.
,   Addition of thioacetic acid to reactive α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds like acrolein or crotonaldehyde in acetone-d(6) generates metastable (E)- and (Z)-1-alkenols, which tautomerize slowly at ambient temperature. The 1,4-addition of thioacetic acid and crotonaldehyde to (Z)-3-(acetylsulfanyl)-1-propen-1-ol is reversible with K(eq) = 5.5 ± 0.5 L/mol. A concerted, cyclic 1,4-addition mode is proposed to explain the preferred (Z)-stereoselectivity in lower polarity, nonprotic solvents.
,   The first stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-cryptomoscatone D2, a naturally occurring G(2) checkpoint inhibitor, was accomplished using propane-1,3-diol as the starting material. The Maruoka asymmetric allylation, ring closing metathesis and the hydrogenation of the triple bond employing Lindlar's catalyst were involved as the key steps.
,   We calculate phase diagrams of charged colloidal spheres (valency Z and radius a) in a 1:1 electrolyte from multicentered nonlinear Poisson-Boltzmann theory. Our theory takes into account charge renormalization of the colloidal interactions and volume terms due to many-body effects. For valencies as small as Z = 1 and as large as 10(4) we find a gas-liquid spinodal instability in the colloid-salt phase diagram provided Z lambdaB/a > or similar 24+/-1, where lambdaB is the Bjerrum length.
,   Alkamides are suspected to contribute to the activity of Echinacea preparations. In preliminary experiments a quantification method for dodeca-2E,4E,8Z,10E/Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides in human blood has been developed by which it was possible to detect dodeca-2E,4E,8Z,10E/Z-tetraenoic acid isobutylamides in human blood after oral application of Echinacea purpurea mother tincture.
,   The aim of our study was to evaluate the image quality of multiplanar reconstruction images (MPRs) focusing on the effect of z-increment of original axial images using signal to noise ratio (SNR) measurement in in- plane and longitudinal directions.s of MPRs were calculated using modulation transfer function (MTF) and noise power spectrum (NPS). We scanned a bead phantom with a diameter of 0.1 mm and a water phantom with a diameter of 250 mm for calculating MTF and NPS using a MDCT with 0.5 s per rotation, 1.0 pitch and 64 x 0.6 mm collimation, and 50 mm field of view. Axial images for generating MPRs were reconstructed with standard kernel (B40), and 1.00 mm slice width. Coronal images were generated from two datasets with 0.1 mm and 0.5 mm z-increments of axial images respectively. For measuring the SNRs, the MTFs and NPSs in in-plane and longitudinal directions of each dataset were calculated from coronal bead images and coronal uniform noise images, respectively. Differences of MTF, NPS, and SNR were compared in in-plane and longitudinal directions. MTF of longitudinal direction of the dataset with 0.1 mm z-increment was higher than the dataset with 0.5 mm z-increment. 10% MTFs of longitudinal direction with 0.1 mm and 0.5 mm z-increments were 0.75 cycles/mm and 0.68 cycles/mm, respectively. Conversely, the NPS of longitudinal direction of the dataset with a 0.1 mm z-increment was lower than the dataset with a 0.5 mm z-increment. As a consequence, the SNRs of longitudinal direction had relatively no difference between the datasets. In in-plane direction, MTFs, NPSs and SNRs had no differences between the datasets.radeoff relationship was indicated between spatial resolution and noise characteristic in the longitudinal direction due to the effects of different z-increment of original axial images used in generating MPRs. MPR using 0.5 mm z-increment of axial images had comparable SNR to MPR using 0.1 mm z-increment of axial images in our experimental condition. CLINICAL RELEVANCE/APPLICATION: Using 0.5 mm z-increment of original axial images for generating MPRs is effective for reducing the data volume, reconstruction time and transfer time without reducing image quality.
,   [reaction: see text] Ring-closing alkyne metathesis toward the synthesis of the alkyne-brigded A-, B-, C-, and (D)E-ring mimics of the peptide antibiotic nisin Z is described. We have successfully synthesized alkyne-bridged cyclic peptides containing 4-7 amino acid residues in yields ranging from 18 to 82%.
,   Zymomonas mobilis is one of the natural ethanologenic microbes. With the unique Entner-Doudoroff pathway and some other special pathways of glycolytic and energetic metabolism, Z. mobilis has remarkable characters of higher rate of ethanol production and higher tolerance to ethanol. Glycolytic and energetic metabolism, tolerances (e.g., to ethanol, osmotic stress, etc.) and genetic improvements of Z. mobilis are reviewed to elucidate the huge potential of Z. mobilis in fuel ethanol production.
,   Glu(Tau), a bioactive substance previously isolated from the protein free aqueous extract of bovine parathyroid powder, has been synthesized. The intermediate derivative Z-Glu(Tau)-OBzl was prepared in three different ways from Z-Glu-OBzl and (1) cystamine by using the mixed anhydride method followed by oxidation, (2) Tau by the active ester procedure via Z-Glu-(ONp)-OBzl, (3) Tau applying mixed anhydride coupling. The protecting groups were removed by hydrogenolysis.
,   4'-Deoxy derivatives of neospiramycin I and their 12-(Z)-isomers were synthesized by reductive dechlorination via 4'-epi-chloro derivatives. The 12-(Z)-derivatives were more active against bacteria in vitro than the corresponding 12-(E)-derivatives in spite of their low affinities to ribosomes.
,   Z-Plasty is a procedure involving the transposition of two interdigitating triangular flaps. This technique is useful in a number of dermatological procedures. It can be used to correct defects resulting from surgical complications. This paper highlights several examples where Z-Plasty is of benefit in dermatosurgery, including the correction of: ectropion, lip misalignment and bifid earlobe. A valuable technique that every dermatologist should be able to perform. 
,   The interactions have been studied between an IgG-binding domain derivative based on domain B of staphylococcal protein A (designated Z) and human immunoglobulin G class 1 (IgG1) and its Fc fragment (Fc1) respectively. Five single amino acid substituted mutant forms of Z were constructed at the gene level, produced intracellularly in Escherichia coli, purified to homogeneity and characterized. Four of these Z variants, designated Z(L17D), Z(N28A), Z(I31A) and Z(K35A), were mutated in residues suggested to be involved in binding, based on the three-dimensional structure of the complex between a one domain protein A molecule and Fc1 [Deisenhofer, J. (1981) Biochemistry, 20, 2361-2370]. The fifth mutant protein, Z(F30A), had a mutation in a phenylalanine residue which was not expected to be involved in the interaction. Analysis by far UV circular dichroism spectroscopy suggests that all Z mutant proteins have similar folds. Their respective binding to human monoclonal IgG1 and to human recombinant Fc1 were studied in a competitive binding assay using radioactively labeled Z as a tracer, demonstrating that the mutant proteins with a substitution in the postulated binding surface showed a weakened binding to both the full-length antibody and the recombinant Fc1. The affinity constants of the interactions as well as relative binding free energies from the parent Z molecule were calculated. These values were similar for each Z variant to both IgG1 and Fc1, suggesting that Fc and not Fab binding was measured also for IgG1. However, the binding strengths differ significantly, and these binding properties were used to compare the contribution of each mutated amino acid residue in the Fc interaction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   Epidermal growth factor receptor 1 (EGFR) is an attractive target for radionuclide therapy of head and neck carcinomas. Affibody molecules against EGFR (Z(EGFR)) show excellent tumor localizations in imaging studies. However, one major drawback is that radiometal-labeled Affibody molecules display extremely high uptakes in the radiosensitive kidneys which may impact their use as radiotherapeutic agents. The purpose of this study is to further explore whether radiometal-labeled human serum albumin (HSA)-Z(EFGR) bioconjugates display desirable profiles for the use in radionuclide therapy of EGFR-positive head and neck carcinomas. The Z(EFGR) analog, Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907), was site-specifically conjugated with HSA. The resulting bioconjugate 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7-triacetic acid (DO3A)-HSA-Z(EGFR:1907) was then radiolabeled with either (64)Cu or (177)Lu and subjected to in vitro cell uptake and internalization studies using the human oral squamous carcinoma cell line SAS. Positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and biodistribution studies were conducted using SAS-tumor-bearing mice. Cell studies revealed a high (8.43 ± 0.55 % at 4 h) and specific (0.95 ± 0.09 % at 4 h) uptake of (177)Lu-DO3A-HSA-Z(EGFR:1907) as determined by blocking with nonradioactive Z(EGFR:1907). The internalization of (177)Lu-DO3A-HSA-Z(EGFR:1907) was verified in vitro and found to be significantly higher than that of (177)Lu-labeled Z(EFGR) at 2-24 h of incubation. PET and SPECT studies showed good tumor imaging contrasts. The biodistribution of (177)Lu-DO3A-HSA-Z(EGFR:1907) in SAS-tumor-bearing mice displayed high tumor uptake (5.1 ± 0.44 % ID/g) and liver uptake (31.5 ± 7.66 % ID/g) and moderate kidney uptake (8.5 ± 1.08 % ID/g) at 72 h after injection. (177)Lu-DO3A-HSA-Z(EGFR:1907) shows promising in vivo profiles and may be a potential radiopharmaceutical for radionuclide therapy of EGFR-expressing head and neck carcinomas.
,   This work investigates the optical Kerr property of azo-dye doped nematic liquid crystal films using the biphotonic Z-scan technique. The results indicate that the nonlinear effect measured using the Z-scan technique with a red light can be modulated or switched with the simultaneous application of a green light, because of photoisomerization and thermal effects, as determined by dynamic measurements. The former dominates in the early stage when the green light is applied, while the latter dominates in the later stage.
,   Molybdenum or tungsten monoaryloxide pyrrolide (MAP) complexes that contain OHIPT as the aryloxide (hexaisopropylterphenoxide) are effective catalysts for homocoupling of simple (E)-1,3-dienes to give (E,Z,E)-trienes in high yield and with high Z selectivities. A vinylalkylidene MAP species was shown to have the expected syn structure in an X-ray study. MAP catalysts that contain OHMT (hexamethylterphenoxide) are relatively inefficient.
,   Three cytotoxic clerodane diterpenes were purified from an ethyl acetate-soluble extract of the stem bark of Polyalthia barnesii, namely, 16 alpha-hydroxycleroda-3,13(14)Z-dien-15,16-olide, a known compound, and two novel compounds, 3 beta, 16 alpha-dihydroxycleroda-4(18),13(14)Z-dien-15,16-olide and 4 beta, 16 alpha-dihydroxyclerod-13(14)Z-en-15,16-olide. These compounds were found to exhibit broad cytotoxicity against a panel of human cancer cell lines.
,   The solid-supported iodobenzoic acid derivatives 8-10 were coupled with a range of organozinc reagents 1-4 under palladium(o) catalysis. The coupled products released by acidic cleavage with TFA were obtained in high purities after recrystallisation. Analogous coupling of solid-supported (E)- and (Z)-3-iodoacrylic acids 18a, 18b, 19 and 20 gave (E)- and (Z)-alpha,beta-unsaturated acids and amides 21-27 stereospecifically.
,   PCR-based assays for the identification of Neisseria meningitidis serogroups 29E, X, and Z by detection of specific regions of the ctrA gene are described. The specificities of these assays were confirmed using serogroups A, B, C, 29E, H, W135, X, Y, and Z and nongroupable meningococcal isolates.
,   Changes in global DNA linking number can be accommodated by localized changes in helical structure. We have used single-molecule torque measurements to investigate sequence-specific strand separation and Z-DNA formation. By controlling the boundary conditions at the edges of sequences of interest, we have confirmed theoretical predictions of distinctive boundary-dependent backbending patterns in torque-twist relationships. Abrupt torque jumps are associated with the formation and collapse of DNA bubbles, permitting direct observations of DNA breathing dynamics.
,   Magnetoelectric confinement and stabilization of the plasma column in a soft-x-ray Ar(+8) laser, which is excited by a capillary Z pinch, via the combined magnetic and electric fields of the gliding surface discharge is experimentally demonstrated. Unlike soft-x-ray lasers excited by the conventional capillary Z pinches, the magnetoelectric confinement and stabilization of plasma do provide the laser operation without using any external preionization circuit.
,   Chalcones can exist as Z- or E-isomers and it is generally anticipated that both isomers are equipotent. In order to determine the active isomer of anti-plasmodial chalcones a series of analogues locked in the Z- or the E-form were prepared and evaluated for their anti-plasmodial activity. It was shown that the Z-locked analogue was nearly inactive, whereas the E-locked analogues were equipotent to the parent chalcones, indicating that the E-isomer is the active conformation.
,   The synthesis of a ruthenium complex that catalyzes Z-selective (up to 98% Z) asymmetric ring-opening/cross-metathesis with high enantioselectivity (up to 95% ee) is reported. The synthesis of the catalyst features the resolution of a chelating N-heterocyclic carbene complex by ligand substitution with a chiral carboxylate. 
,   This study was conducted in Benin City, Nigeria between June and August 1996 to assess nutritional status and health risks of three to five-year-old children, with the view to suggesting practical approaches to their early detection and intervention. A total of 165 children comprising 90 males and 75 females was studied. Mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), weight-for-age (WFA), weight-for-height (WFH) and height-for-age (HFA) z-scores were determined and used to calculate percentage prevalence of malnutrition. Clinical features of macro- and micro-nutrient deficiency were used to develop a clinical scoring system which was subsequently matched with anthropometric z-scores. The results showed that MUAC z-scores (-1.91 SD +/- 0.74) gave the highest percentage prevalence of malnutrition of 45.2% in this population, followed by the WFA (-1.22 SD +/- 1.07) and HFA (-0.84 SD +/- 1.42) z-scores with a percentage prevalence of 23.3% and 20.6% respectively. The WFH z-score (-0.89 SD +/- 1.06) was the least sensitive in detecting malnutrition (14.7% prevalence). The percentage prevalence calculated from MUAC z-scores matched FAO figures (43%) for the sub-Saharan African region in 1996. MUAC z-scores also correlated more closely with the clinical features of malnutrition (R2 = 0.7087). Progressively worsening clinical features were also seen with decreasing z-scores for all variables. Even though moderate differences in clinical and anthropometric variables were detected between the sexes with females fairing better than male subjects, these differences were not statistically significant. Comparisons between anthropometric variables showed only weak correlation, except for WFA vs. HFA z-scores (R2 = 0.5233) and WFH vs. WFA z-scores (R2 = 0.4559) which showed moderately positive correlation. We conclude that whereas MUAC z-scores were most sensitive in detecting the extent of malnutrition in this population, merely using anthropometric variables alone may lead to significant under-reporting of the prevalence of malnutrition in a community. A combination of various anthropometric z-scores with clinical features will however help in the early identification and categorisation of subjects in terms of degree of nutritional risk. The training of field health and nutrition workers should therefore emphasise the routine use and combination of anthropometric and clinical variables in the determination of prevalence of malnutrition and in the formulation of intervention strategies for nutrition rehabilitation.
,   From fundamental principles, the interaction of directed energetic electrons with hydrogenic and arbitrary-Z plasmas is analytically modeled. The effects of stopping, straggling, and beam blooming, a consequence of scattering and energy loss, are rigorously treated from a unified approach. Enhanced energy deposition occurs in the latter portion of the penetration and is inextricably linked to straggling and blooming. These effects, which have a strong Z dependence, will be important in evaluating the requirements of fast ignition and tolerable levels of electron preheat.
,   A simple three-step single-pot procedure for Z-stereoselective synthesis of beta-monosubstituted acrylonitriles has been established. The reaction involves olefination of aldehydes with an in situ generated alpha-diaminoboryl carbanion species. Various aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes were smoothly converted into the corresponding (Z)-olefin products (up to 96:4 ratio) in good yields (80-98%).
,   Bioactivity-guided fractionation of a CH2Cl2 extract from leaves of Piper hispidum (Piperaceae) yielded a new pyrrolidine amide, N-[7-(3',4'-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2(Z),4(Z)-heptadienoyl] pyrrolidine 1, in addition to two known amides N-[5-(3', 4'-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2(E)-pentadienoyl] pyrrolidine and N-[2-(3', 4'-methylenedioxy-6'-methoxyphenyl)-2(Z)-propenoyl]pyrrolidine. The structure of compound 1 was elucidated by interpretation of spectral data, including ES-MS. Compound 1 showed antifungal activity against Cladosporium sphaerospermum.
,   In the article "Dynamics of skeletal pattern formation in developing chick limb" by S. A. Newman and H. L. Frisch (17 Aug., p. 662), a clause was omitted. The clause should be inserted on page 667, third column, line 31, as follows: "[. . . respectively,] at t = t(0), but subsequently we would like the gradient in the z direction to be maintained, and thus require [see equation in pdf] at z = 0 and z = d, for all times (radiation boundary conditions). [ The number. . .]."
,   Phaseolus coccineus embryos at the heartshaped and the middle cotyledonary stages were cultured in vitro on media added with different concentrations of zeatin (Z) or zeatin riboside (Zr). Growth of early embryos was clearly favored by concentrations of Z from 10(-8) M to 10(-5) M, lower concentrations having no effect. Zr also promoted in vitro growth of early embryos, but in concentrations from 10(-12) M to 10(-10) M, higher concentrations being inhibitory. More developed embryos were scarcely sensitive to the presence in the culture medium of either Z or Zr at any concentration. 
,   Conformational properties of the peptides containing (Δ(Z)Phe)6 with achiral (ΔAla, Gly) and chiral (Ala, Leu) residues at both the N- and C-terminal positions have been studied with a view to design a peptide with desired helical screw sense. In all the peptides, the lowest energy conformational state corresponds to Φ = 0° and Ψ = + 90° or - 90° or both +/- 90°. These structures are characterized by rise per residue of 1.94 Å; rotation per residue of 114° and 3.12 residues per turn and are stabilized by: (i) carbonyl-carbonyl interactions with the carbonyl oxygen of ith residue and carbonyl carbon atom of the carbonyl group of ith+1 residue; and (ii) N-H....π interactions between the amino group of Δ(Z)Phe and its own aromatic moiety. The Ala/Leu residues at the N-terminus further stabilized the structure, through C-H....π interactions with the farthest edge of the aromatic ring of ith+3 Δ(Z)Phe residue. For peptides Ac-L-Ala/L-Leu-(Δ(Z)Phe)6-NHMe, the low energy left handed helical structure (approximately 2.5 Kcalmol⁻¹ higher in energy) state corresponds to Φ = -30°, Ψ = 120° for L-residue and Φ = Ψ = 30° for Δ(Z)Phe residues and is in good agreement with the X-ray crystallography results for the peptide Boc-L-Ala-(Δ(Z)Phe)4-NHMe crystals grown from acetonitrile/ethanol mixture. Computational results suggest that the peptides Ac-DAla/D-Leu-(Δ(Z)Phe)6-NHMe adopt a right handed helical structure in polar solvents with Φ = 30°, Ψ = -120° for D-residues and Φ = Ψ = -30° for Δ(Z)Phe residues. Both in the left handed and right handed structures, the carbonyl oxygen of acetyl group is involved in 10-membered hydrogen bonded ring formation with NH of 3rd Δ(z)Phe residue whereas Δ(Z)Phe residues backbone adopts a 3₁₀ helix structure. Computational results also suggest that the conformational state with Φ = 0° and Ψ = 90° can be realized by keeping D-Ala or D-Leu at the C-terminal. There is hardly any effect of achiral residues Gly/ΔAla on the conformational behaviour of poly-Δ(Z)Phe.
,   Human urinary kinin (substance Z) has been extracted by modifications of the methods previously described by Gomes (1955) and Jensen (1958). The separation of two oxytocic fractions from such extracts by paper pulp chromatography (Walaszek, 1957; Jensen, 1958) could not be confirmed. Substance Z could not be distinguished from kallidin, bradykinin or glass-activated kinin by parallel quantitative assays, thus confirming that these four substances are very closely related.
,   The crystal structures of three xylazine hydrochloride [N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-5,6-dihydro-4H-1,3-thiaz-2-amine hydrochloride] polymorphs A, Z and X have been solved from powder diffraction data and refined using Rietveld refinement. Data were obtained with Cu Kα radiation. All polymorphs were found to have structures with Z' = 1 and Z = 4. All the structures determined contained strong hydrogen bonds between the amino groups and chloride anions. The crystal structures of forms A and X featured π-π stacking interactions. 
,   It was shown by circular dichroism that the B-Z transition of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) in high NaCl concentrations occurred more rapidly in the presence of formaldehyde and Tris. The product of formaldehyde and glycine interaction induces changes in the poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) CD spectral characteristics of a 'B-like' conformation. It is supposed that the B-Z transition occurs without large-scale hydrogen bond breakage.
,   A large-aperture (30-cm) kilojoule-class Nd:glass laser system known as Z-Beamlet has been constructed to perform x-ray radiography of high-energy-density science experiments conducted on the Z facility at Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico. The laser, operating with typical pulse durations from 0.3 to 1.5 ns, employs a sequence of successively larger multipass amplifiers to achieve up to 3-kJ energy at 1054 nm. Large-aperture frequency conversion and long-distance beam transport can provide on-target energies of up to 1.5 kJ at 527 nm.
,   The T-cell mediated immune responses play a major role in xenograft rejection. However, the mechanisms behind human T-cell recognition of porcine xenoantigens remain to be elucidated.an CD8+ T-cell lines were generated against porcine aortic endothelial cells (PAECs) from y/y and z/z haplotypes of Yucatan inbred swine. T-cell clones were obtained by limiting dilution. The human T-cell receptor (TCR)-swine leukocyte antigen (SLA) class I interaction was characterized. human CD8+ T-cell mediated direct recognition of PAECs was SLA haplotype-specific. The haplotype specificity was restricted by the SLA class I allelic polymorphism. To characterize the role of SLA-bound peptides in the human TCR-SLA class I interaction, we stripped peptides from SLA molecules by a brief acid treatment. Using z/z-specific CD8+ T cells as effectors, we demonstrated that the acid-treatment, which stripped SLA molecules of bound peptides, decreased the lysis of PAECs by 72%. Addition of peptides eluted from affinity purified z/z SLA class I molecules, but not from the irrelevant y/y SLA class I, restored the lysis of acid-treated z/z PAECs. In addition, the lysis of a human HLA class I negative cell line, 721.221, transfected with a relevant SLA class I allele derived from the z/z haplotype, was significantly increased with the addition of relevant z/z peptides. These experiments indicated that both SLA class I and bound peptides were required for recognition by human CD8+ T cells. Cloning studies identified two groups of xenoreactive T-cell clones. Group I clones recognized distinct porcine peptides in the context of SLA class I molecules, whereas group II clones recognized human endogenous cross-reactive peptides presented by SLA class I. results demonstrated that, despite the differences in MHC molecules between species, human T-cell recognition of porcine MHC is similar to direct allo-recognition, that is, human TCR recognizes xenogeneic SLA-peptide complexes.
,   Reverse-phase preparative HPLC analysis of the n-butanol fraction of the methanolic extract of Withania somnifera Dunal (leaves) afforded a novel chlorinated withanolide, namely withanolide Z (1), along with four known withanolides, withanolide B (2), withanolide A (3), 27-hydroxywithanolide B (4) and withaferin A (5). Their structures were elucidated by IR, MS, CD and a combination of 1 D and 2 D NMR spectral analyses. The Leishmania donovani DNA topoisomerase I inhibitory activities of the isolated compounds were determined.
,   We report 2 cases of Z syndrome with the Crystalens AT50SE and AT52SE intraocular lenses (Eyeonics, Inc.) after uneventful cataract surgery. Both patients had subsequent neodymium:YAG laser capsulotomy treatment that remedied the complication. To our knowledge, these are the first reported cases of Z syndrome with the Crystalens AT50SE and AT52SE, a unique complication with this type of hinged accommodating intraocular lens.
,   A total synthesis of the fostriecin has been achieved in 24 steps from enyne 11. The lactone moiety was installed by a Leighton allylation and Grubbs ring-closing metathesis reaction. The highly reactive Z,Z,E-triene moiety was installed via a late-stage Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling of a remarkably stable Z-vinyl boronate. The relative and absolute stereocenters of the C-8,9,11 triol were generated with a regio- and stereoselective asymmetric hydration/oxidation sequence.
,   Two biologically active macrolides were isolated from Porapak Q-captured beetle and frass volatiles ofCryptolestes turcicus (Grouvelle) and identified spectroscopically as (Z,Z)-5,8-tetradecadien-13-olide (I) and (Z)-5-tetradecen-13-olide (II). Natural I was active alone and was synergized by inactive II. The pheromones were male-produced but attractive to both sexes. Pheromone production increased dramatically when insects were aerated on a food source. Pure (R)- and (S)-I were inactive, but mixtures of (R)- and (S)-I were active, the first reported instance of enantiomeric synergism in the Cucujidae. 
,   Z-shape (1,2,7,8-tetrasubstituted) perylene derivatives are novel chromophores with great potential in various applications. Yet, the synthetic entry into this class of molecules is hitherto quite limited. In this communication, the synthesis of a series of Z-shape perylene derivatives via a double Wittig-Knoevenagel benzannulation protocol is reported. Preliminary photophysical and electrochemical studies indicate that the frontier orbital energy levels of these new perylene systems are modulated by electronic, regiochemical, and conformational effects. 
,   Protein Z, a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein, has an important role in the regulation of the coagulation cascade. Protein Z deficiency has been associated with unexplained pregnancy loss and adverse pregnancy outcome in patients with thrombophilia. This study was conducted to determine if preeclampsia (PE), small for gestational age (SGA), and fetal demise are associated with changes in maternal plasma concentrations of protein Z.s cross-sectional study included normal pregnant women (N = 71), patients with PE (N = 130), patients who delivered an SGA neonate (N = 58), and patients with fetal demise (N = 58). Maternal plasma protein Z concentrations were measured by a sensitive and specific immunoassay. Protein Z deficiency was defined as maternal plasma concentrations <or=5th percentile of the normal pregnancy group (<or=1.59 microg/mL). Non-parametric statistics were used for analysis. Patients with PE had a lower median plasma concentration of protein Z than normal pregnant women (PE: median 1.6 microg/mL, range 0.2-3.3 microg/mL vs. normal pregnancy: median 2.4 microg/mL, range 1.1-3.4 microg/mL; p < 0.0001); (2) patients with an SGA neonate (median 2.3 microg/mL, range 0.2-3.8 microg/mL) and fetal demise (median 2.6 microg/mL, range 0.2-4.3 g/mL) did not have significantly different median protein Z concentrations from normal pregnant women (p > 0.05); and (3) women in the PE and fetal demise groups had significantly higher rates of protein Z deficiency than those with normal pregnancy outcome. PE, but not SGA or fetal demise, is associated with a significantly lower maternal median plasma concentration of protein Z than normal pregnancy, and (2) a high rate of protein Z deficiency is observed in patients with PE and fetal demise.
,   Field studies have indicated that bolas spiders attract male moth prey, apparently by mimicking the odor of female moth sex pheromones. Three moth sex pheromone compounds, (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate, (Z)-9-tetradecenal, and (Z)-11-hexadecenal, were identified in volatile substances emitted by hunting adult female Mastophora cornigera spiders. These compounds are components of pheromone blends that attract some of this spider's moth prey species.
,   A high degree of specificity of circulating anti-DNA antibody for double stranded DNA in the sera of SLE patients was found, as compared to single stranded polymer. The antibody recognized brominated DNA, a polymer that appears to attain Z-conformation as indicated on the basis of UV absorption characteristics. The existence in native DNA of regions undergoing B----Z transition has been detected.
,   A measure of 2 x 2 association, Z, is developed having the property that n(Z - Z) has approximately a standard normal distribution, even for quite small sample size. Examples of the use of this variance-stabilizing and normalizing transformation in planning studies of 2 x 2 association are presented. Studies of the association between coronary artery disease and exercise stress test results are used to illustrate these methods.
,   A general and selective palladium-catalyzed carbonylation of terminal alkynes method for the synthesis of (Z)-3-haloacrylates is presented. In the presence of a catalytic amount of PdX2 and 5 equiv of CuX2 (X=Cl and Br), terminal alkynes were carbonylated to afford the corresponding (Z)-3-haloacrylates exclusively in moderate to good yields. The results showed that the effect of solvent had a fundamental influence on the chemoselectivity and stereoselectivity of the palladium-catalyzed carbonylation reaction.
,   Easily accessible Ac-(Z)-delta Phe-NHMe was photoisomerized to so far unknown Ac-(E)-delta Phe-NHMe. Some parameters of the process leading to a diastereomeric mixture of ratio 90(Z):10(E) have been tested and the photoisomerization has been carried out on a preparative milligram scale. The isomers were separated via crystallization followed by preparative HPLC.
,   A variety of highly functionalized cis-decalin systems have been prepared by means of the stereoselective transannular Diels-Alder (TADA) reaction of a (Z,E,Z,Z)-tetraene macrolide, and by means of intramolecular nitrile oxide olefin (INOC) or ring-closing metathesis (RCM) annulations to quinic acid derivatives.
,   Three hundred seventy-one second graders in rural public schools were evaluated for thumbsucking, rest and swallow postures of the tongue, and articulatory placement and acoustic aspects of /s,z/. Significant relationships were observed between thumbsucking and lower dental or interdental rest and swallow postures as well as acoustic errors for /s,z/. The implications of these relationships are discussed.
,   Myriocin (thermozymocidin, ISP-I), which was known to exhibit several interesting biological properties such as potent immunosuppressive and antifungal activities, and a new analog Z-myriocin were synthesized from 2-deoxy-D-glucose. This synthetic pathway comprises a stereoselective formation of the chiral alpha, alpha-disubstituted amino acid structure in myriocin and Z-myriocin from the isopropylidene six-membered ketone by using a modified Darzen reaction as its key step.
,   Catalytic access to thermodynamically less stable Z-alkenes has recently received considerable attention. These approaches have relied upon kinetic control of the reaction to arrive at the thermodynamically less stable geometrical isomer. Herein, we present an orthogonal approach which proceeds via photochemically catalyzed isomerization of the thermodynamic E-alkene to the less stable Z-isomer which occurs via a photochemical pumping mechanism. We consider two potential mechanisms. Importantly, the reaction conditions are mild, tolerant, and operationally simple and will be easily implemented. 
,   To compose Gianturco Z-stents without welding, a twining method was applied. The link portion of the struts of were spirally entwined by a thin stainless steel wire of 0.1 mm in diameter. The directional balance of spring force of the twined stents compared favorably with that of the conventionally welded stents. This twining method has theoretical benefit of less susceptible to corrosion than soldering. Then the twining method was thought to be beneficial in composing Z-stents.
,   9-(3-Phosphonomethoxyprop-1-en-yl)adenine (Z)- and (E)-isomers were synthesized. The stereoselectivity of double bond formation was studied by variation of sulfonyl groups. The resulting phosphonates exhibited a moderate antiherpetic activity in a culture of Vero cells infected with herpes simplex type 1 virus. The Z-isomer was shown to be more effective inhibitor of virus reproduction in the case of both wild and acyclovir-resistant strain.
,   Let [unk] be the subinterval of R of values sigma </= gamma. Let there be given a family F of real valued symmetric quadratic forms [Formula: see text] in real variables z(1),...,z(mu). If for fixed sigma[unk][unk] a nonnull mu-tuple z is a critical point of Q(sigma), sigma will be called a characteristic root of F. When F satisfies Conditions I, II, and III below, the index of Q(sigma) is the "count" of characteristic roots of F less than sigma.
,   A number of novel beta-ketoesters were prepared by regioselective alkylation reactions of simple beta-ketoester dianions. The cyclization of the dianions of these 1,3-dicarbonyl derivatives with 1-bromo-2-chloroethane afforded a variety of 2-alkylidenetetrahydrofurans with very good regioselectivity and E/Z-diastereoselectivity. These products were deprotonated to give novel ambident carbanions. The alkylation of these carbanions with alkyl halides proceeded with very good regioselectivity and E/Z-diastereoselectivity and allowed a convenient synthesis of a great variety of new 2-alkylidenetetrahydrofurans.
,   Allylic gem-dichlorides undergo regio- and enanantioselective (er up to 99:1) copper-catalyzed allylic alkylation with Grignard reagents affording chiral Z-vinyl chlorides. This highly versatile class of synthons can be subjected to Suzuki cross coupling affording optically active Z-alkenes and 1,3-cis,trans dienes.
,   The nuclear shape correction to the g factor of a bound electron in the 1S state is calculated for a number of nuclei in the range of charge numbers from Z=6 up to Z=92. The leading relativistic deformation correction has been derived analytically, and also its influence on one-loop quantum electrodynamic terms has been evaluated. We show the leading corrections to become significant for mid-Z ions and for very heavy elements to even reach the 10(-6) level.
,   Through a systematic structural search we found an allotrope of carbon with Cmmm symmetry which we predict to be more stable than graphite for pressures above 10 GPa. This material, which we refer to as Z-carbon, is formed by pure sp(3) bonds and it provides an explanation to several features in experimental x-ray diffraction and Raman spectra of graphite under pressure. The transition from graphite to Z-carbon can occur through simple sliding and buckling of graphene sheets. Our calculations predict that Z-carbon is a transparent wide band-gap semiconductor with a hardness comparable to diamond.
,   The title compound, C(9)H(7)NS, crystallizes as the thione tautomer with Z' = 8 (four independent dimers with local inversion symmetry via two N-H...S=C hydrogen-bond systems). The dimers are arranged in chains parallel to [-110], each chain being crystallographically independent. These chains are associated into layers via stacking of ring systems. The Z' value can be rationalized in terms of a factor 2 for dimer formation without crystallographic symmetry and an additional factor 4 for differing stacking environments.
,   An efficient method for the synthesis of (+)-coronarin E (1), (+)-15,16-epoxy-8(17),13(16),14-labdatriene (2), and (+)-labda-8(17),13(Z)-diene-15,16-diol (3) from (+)-manool is described.
,   To compare serum Lutein and Zeaxanthin (L/Z) concentrations between patients with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NDR) and normal subjects, and to explore the effect of L/Z supplementation on serum L/Z level and visual function in NDR patientsJECTS WERE DIVIDED INTO THREE GROUPS: 30 NDR patients supplied with Lutein 6mg/d and Zeaxanthin 0.5mg/d for three months (DR Group), 30 NDR patients without L/Z supplementation (DR Control Group) and 30 normal subjects (Control Group). Serum L/Z concentrations were measured by liquid high-resolution chromatography (HPLC). Visual acuity was recorded at baseline, 1 month, 2 months and 3 months post initial supplementation. Serum L/Z concentration were measured at baseline, 1 month and 2 months post initial supplementation. Contrast sensitivity (CS) and fovea thickness were recorded at baseline and 3 months post initial supplementation.n serum lutein concentrations in DR group were 0.0686±0.0296µg/mL and zeaxanthin concentration was 0.0137±0.0059µg/mL. The L/Z level of DR group was significantly lower compared to the control group (lutein: 0.2302±0.1308µg/mL, zeaxanthin: 0.0456±0.0266µg/m, P=0.000). The concentration of lutein and zeaxanthin in the DR control group at base line was 0.0714±0.0357µg/mL and 0.0119±0.0072µg/mL, respectively. There was no significant change of L/Z concentration in the DR control group during the study. Serum L/Z concentrations of DR group increased significantly after supplementation (F=109.124, P=0.000; F=219.207, P=0.000). Visual acuity improved significantly after medication. Compared with pre-medication, the average CS values of 1.5cpd, 3cpd and 6cpd after three months increased significantly (P=0.030,0.013,0.008) and the foveal thickness decreased. (P=0.05)um L/Z concentrations in DR patients are significantly lower than those in normal subjects, and L/Z intake can improve the visual acuity, CS and macular edema in DR patients, suggesting that L/Z supplementation might be targeted as potential potential therapeutic agents in treating NDR.
,   Analysis of products from the reaction between 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6,8,11,14-(E,Z,Z,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid and 2'-deoxyguanosine in the presence of FeII, FeIII, or vitamin C by liquid chromatography/atmospheric pressure chemical ionization/mass spectrometry revealed the presence of four DNA adducts. Surprisingly, adducts I and II had mass spectral characteristics identical to those for 1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine and heptanone-1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine. These adducts have previously been shown to arise from the homolytic decomposition of 13(S)-hydroperoxy-9,11-(Z,E)-octadecadienoic acid. It appears that under the reaction conditions, 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6,8,11,14-(E,Z,Z,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid was subjected to a previously unknown peroxidation reaction to give a bis-hydroperoxide intermediate that underwent a Hock rearrangement to produce 3(Z)-nonenal from the omega-terminus. The 3(Z)-nonenal was then converted to 4-hydroperoxy-2-nonenal, a precursor to the formation of 4-oxo-2-nonenal. 4-Oxo-2-nonenal forms heptanone-1,N2-etheno-adducts with 2'-deoxyguanosine, whereas 4-hydroperoxy-2-nonenal forms 1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine. Two novel carboxylate adducts were also identified. The structure of the more abundant adduct (III) was characterized as its methyl ester derivative by NMR spectroscopy as 3-(2'-deoxy-beta-D-erythropentafuranosyl)imidazo-7-(5' '-carboxypenta-2' '-one)-9-oxo[1,2-alpha]purine (5-carboxy-2-pentanone-1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine). This etheno adduct was formed by the reaction of 2'-deoxyguanosine with 5,8-dioxo-6(E)-octenoic acid. The bifunctional electrophile is proposed to arise from the alpha-terminus during the Hock rearrangement of bis-hydroperoxide derived from 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6,8,11,14-(E,Z,Z,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid. 5-Carboxy-2-pentanone-1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine may serve as a biomarker of 5-lipoxygenase-mediated oxidative stress. The less abundant carboxylate adduct IV arose from a quite different pathway and was tentatively characterized as 6-carboxy-3-hydroxy-1-hexene-1,N2-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine.
,   A Na(2)CO(3)-promoted addition of phenols to propiolonitriles generated (Z)-3-aryloxy-acrylonitriles in nearly quantitative yields with exclusively Z-isomers, and a DABCO-promoted addition reaction of phenols with propiolonitriles afforded mainly (E)-3-aryloxy-acrylonitriles with high yields. The obtained (E)-3-aryloxy-acrylonitriles underwent intramolecular cyclization to give 3-cyanobenzofurans in good yields through palladium-catalyzed direct C-H bond functionalization.
,   (E)- and (Z)-(fluoroalkenyl)boronates were prepared stereospecifically by the reaction of 2-fluoroalkylideneiodonium ylide generated from (E)- or (Z)-(2-fluoroalkenyl)iodonium salts with di(p-fluorophenoxy)alkylboranes, followed by transesterification to pinacol esters. The resulting pinacol esters of (fluoroalkenyl)boranes were used for the stereoselective synthesis of trisubstituted fluoroalkenes by cross-coupling reactions.
,   IR Fourier spectra of two enaminoketones with general formula (CH(3))(2)NCR(1)CR(2)C(O)CF(3), R(1)H, R(2)CH(3) (2); R(1)CH(3), R(2)H (3) were investigated in various pure solvents. For comparison results of earlier investigated enaminoketone R(1)H, R(2)H (1) were also presented. On the basis of NMR and IR spectra it was shown that enaminoketones 1 and 2 presented in solutions as an equilibrium of two conformers, (E-s-Z)⇌(E-s-E), whereas the enaminoketone 3 presented as equilibrium of two isomers, (E-s-Z)⇌(Z-s-Z). Quantum chemical calculations by the DFT methods were carried out to evaluate relative energy and dipole moment of each spatial form. For both (E-s-Z) and (E-s-E) conformer of the 1 and 2 the main influence on the ν(C=O) vibrations has the solvent's hydrogen bond donor (HBD) acidity whereas for the 3 influence of the solvent's polarity/polarizability dominated. Both the solvent's polarity/polarizability and solvent's hydrogen bond donor (HBD) acidity influenced on the ν(C=C) mode of the conformers of the 1 and 2. Solvent influence on the ν(C=C) vibrations of the 3 depended substantially whether the solvent is aprotic or an alcohol. In the former case the main contribution made the solvent's hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA) basicity [(E-s-Z) isomer] or the solvent's polarity/polarizability with solvent's hydrogen bond donor (HBD) acidity [(Z-s-Z) isomer]. Alcohols influenced on the ν(C=C) vibrations of both isomers predominantly due to the solvent's polarity/polarizability. In aprotic solvents the greatest contribution in solvent influence on thermodynamic parameters of both (E-s-Z)⇌(E-s-E) and (E-s-Z)⇌(Z-s-Z) equilibrium made the solvent's hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA) basicity. Rotation around double C=C bond is characterized by higher sensitivity to the solvent's hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA) basicity compared to the rotation around formally single C-C=O bond.
,   Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are required to maintain a stable repression of the homeotic genes during Drosophila development. Mutants in the PcG gene Supressor of zeste 12 (Su(z)12) exhibit strong homeotic transformations caused by widespread misexpression of several homeotic genes in embryos and larvae. Su(z)12 has also been suggested to be involved in position effect variegation and in regulation of the white gene expression in combination with zeste. To elucidate whether SU(Z)12 has any such direct functions we investigated the binding pattern to polytene chromosomes and compared the localization to other proteins. We found that SU(Z)12 binds to about 90 specific eukaryotic sites, however, not the white locus. We also find staining at the chromocenter and the nucleolus. The binding along chromosome arms is mostly in interbands and these sites correlate precisely with those of Enhancer-of-zeste and other components of the PRC2 silencing complex. This implies that SU(Z)12 mainly exists in complex with PRC2. Comparisons with other PcG protein-binding patterns reveal extensive overlap. However, SU(Z)12 binding sites and histone 3 trimethylated lysine 27 residues (3meK27 H3) do not correlate that well. Still, we show that Su(z)12 is essential for tri-methylation of the lysine 27 residue of histone H3 in vivo, and that overexpression of SU(Z)12 in somatic clones results in higher levels of histone methylation, indicating that SU(Z)12 is rate limiting for the enzymatic activity of PRC2. In addition, we analyzed the binding pattern of Heterochromatin Protein 1 (HP1) and found that SU(Z)12 and HP1 do not co-localize.
,   Release of free bases from calf thymus DNA upon irradiation in aerated 0.1 mol dm-3NaClO4 at pH 7 has been measured by HPLC and shown to be markedly influenced by the presence of thiols during irradiation. The ability of thiols to protect DNA was shown to depend upon the net charge (Z) at pH 7 in the order WR 1065 (Z = +2) greater than cysteamine (Z = +1) greater than 2-mercaptoethanol (Z = 0) approximately equal to dithiothreitol (Z = 0) greater than GSH (Z = -1) approximately equal to 2-mercaptoethanesulfonic acid (Z = -1) approximately equal to 2-mercaptosuccinate (Z = -2). A similar dependence of protection upon net charge was found for disulfides: cystamine (Z = +2) greater than 2-mercaptoethyl disulfide (Z = 0) greater than GSSG (Z = -2). Protection by WR 1065, but not by 2-mercaptoethanol or GSH, was found to decrease significantly with increasing ionic strength. Protection by WR 1065 and GSH was not markedly dependent upon pH between pH 6 and 8. The results are explained in terms of electrostatic interaction of the thiols with DNA, leading to high concentrations of cations near DNA, which allow them to scavenge hydroxyl radicals and repair DNA radicals effectively and to low concentrations of anionic thiols near DNA, which limit their effectiveness as protectors. Poly(dG,dC) and calf thymus DNA exhibited comparable release of G and C upon changing from 0.1 to 0.7 mol dm-3 MgSO4. Since this change causes poly(dG,dC), but not calf thymus DNA, to undergo a change from the B-form to the Z-form of DNA, both forms must have a comparable susceptibility to radiation-induced base release.
,   A high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of (Z)- and (E)-doxepin hydrochloride isomers was developed. The analysis employs a column packed with spherical silica microparticles (5-6 mum), and a mobile phase of acetonitrile-chloroform-diethylamine (750:250:0.2) permits baseline resolution and simultaneous determination of the (Z)- and (E)-doxepin isomers. Process-related substances do not interfere. The method is accurate and precise (the relative standard deviation was 0.3% for both isomers). The simple procedure is highly suitable for routine doxepin hydrochloride analysis.
,   This study examined the effects of a 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) antagonist, 20-hydroxyeicosa-6(Z),15(Z)-dienoic acid (WIT002) and two agonists, 4-amino-N-(20-hydroxy-eicosa-5(Z),14(Z)-dienoyl) benzenesulfonamide (ABSA) and 20-hydroxyeicosa-5(Z),14(Z)-dienoic acid (WIT003), on the diameter of rat middle cerebral arteries in vitro and on cerebral blood flow in vivo. WIT003, ABSA and 20-HETE all had a similar effect to reduce the diameter of the middle cerebral artery by 26%. WIT003 and 20-HETE both increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in vascular smooth muscle cells isolated from the middle cerebral artery. In contrast, WIT002 had no effect on the basal diameter of the middle cerebral artery but it attenuated the vasoconstrictor responses and the rise in [Ca2+]i in vascular smooth muscle cells following administration of 20-HETE and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). WIT003 partially restored the vasoconstrictor response to 5-HT in the middle cerebral artery after administration of an inhibitor of the endogenous synthesis of 20-HETE. Infusion of the 20-HETE agonists, WIT003 and ABSA, into cisterna magna of rats reduced baseline cerebral blood flow by 20%, whereas administration of the 20-HETE antagonist, WIT002, had no effect. Intracisternal injection of WIT002 attenuated the fall in cerebral blood flow following injection of blood into the cisterna magna, whereas administration of the 20-HETE agonist, ABSA, potentiated this response. These findings indicate that the 20-HETE agonists, WIT003 and ABSA, increase cerebral vascular tone both in vivo and in vitro and suggest blocking the vasoconstrictor actions of 20-HETE may be useful to prevent the acute fall in cerebral blood flow following subarachnoid hemorrhage.
,   We report on the quantitative determination of acetaminophen (paracetamol; NAPAP-d(0)) in human plasma and urine by GC-MS and GC-MS/MS in the electron-capture negative-ion chemical ionization (ECNICI) mode after derivatization with pentafluorobenzyl (PFB) bromide (PFB-Br). Commercially available tetradeuterated acetaminophen (NAPAP-d(4)) was used as the internal standard. NAPAP-d(0) and NAPAP-d(4) were extracted from 100-μL aliquots of plasma and urine with 300 μL ethyl acetate (EA) by vortexing (60s). After centrifugation the EA phase was collected, the solvent was removed under a stream of nitrogen gas, and the residue was reconstituted in acetonitrile (MeCN, 100 μL). PFB-Br (10 μL, 30 vol% in MeCN) and N,N-diisopropylethylamine (10 μL) were added and the mixture was incubated for 60 min at 30 °C. Then, solvents and reagents were removed under nitrogen and the residue was taken up with 1000 μL of toluene, from which 1-μL aliquots were injected in the splitless mode. GC-MS quantification was performed by selected-ion monitoring ions due to [M-PFB](-) and [M-PFB-H](-), m/z 150 and m/z 149 for NAPAP-d(0) and m/z 154 and m/z 153 for NAPAP-d(4), respectively. GC-MS/MS quantification was performed by selected-reaction monitoring the transition m/z 150 → m/z 107 and m/z 149 → m/z 134 for NAPAP-d(0) and m/z 154 → m/z 111 and m/z 153 → m/z 138 for NAPAP-d(4). The method was validated for human plasma (range, 0-130 μM NAPAP-d(0)) and urine (range, 0-1300 μM NAPAP-d(0)). Accuracy (recovery, %) ranged between 89 and 119%, and imprecision (RSD, %) was below 19% in these matrices and ranges. A close correlation (r>0.999) was found between the concentrations measured by GC-MS and GC-MS/MS. By this method, acetaminophen can be reliably quantified in small plasma and urine sample volumes (e.g., 10 μL). The analytical performance of the method makes it especially useful in pediatrics.
,   Monoaryloxide-pyrrolide (MAP) complexes of molybdenum were employed for the selective ethenolysis of 1,2-disubstituted Z olefins in the presence of the corresponding E olefins. Reactions were performed in the presence of 0.02-3.0 mol % catalyst at 22 °C under 20 atm ethylene. We have demonstrated that the Z isomer of an easily accessible E:Z mixture can be destroyed through ethenolysis and the E alkene thereby isolated readily in high yield and exceptional stereoisomeric purity.
,   Fermentation of Pseudeurotium zonatum led to the isolation of the known cytochalasin G (1) and three new cytochalasins, X, Y, and Z (2-4). These four compounds are the only naturally occurring cytochalasins reported to date that contain an indole-substituted perhydroisoindol-1-one fused with an 11-membered macrocycle.
,   Imprinting of laser nonuniformity is a limiting factor in direct-drive inertial confinement fusion experiments, particularly when available laser smoothing is limited. A thin (∼400  Å) high-Z metal coating is found to substantially suppress laser imprint for planar targets driven by pulse shapes and intensities relevant to implosions on the National Ignition Facility while retaining low adiabat target acceleration. A hybrid of indirect and direct drive, this configuration results in initial ablation by x rays from the heated high-Z layer, creating a large standoff for perturbation smoothing. 
,   The free fatty acids of the Mediterranean opisthobranch Haminaea templadoi were isolated and characterized, revealing the presence of the new 10,15-eicosadienoic acid [1] and several unusual cis delta 6 monoenoic acids, such as (Z)-6-tetradecenoic acid, (Z)-6-pentadecenoic acid, and (Z)-6-heptadecenoic acid. These results reveal some previously unrecognized fatty acids in mollusks.
,   Photoreaction of methyl 5,8-epoxyretinoate was investigated. Irradiation of methyl 5,8-epoxyretinoate in acetonitrile with a light from a high-pressure mercury lamp or a daylight fluorescent lamp afforded three new products, which were purified by high-performance liquid chromatography. They were characterized on the basis of spectroscopic data as 11-(Z), 13-(Z), and 11,13-di(Z) isomers, respectively.
,   The discovery of a new chemical element with atomic number Z=117 is reported. The isotopes (293)117 and (294)117 were produced in fusion reactions between (48)Ca and (249)Bk. Decay chains involving 11 new nuclei were identified by means of the Dubna gas-filled recoil separator. The measured decay properties show a strong rise of stability for heavier isotopes with Z > or = 111, validating the concept of the long sought island of enhanced stability for superheavy nuclei.
,   We have first demonstrated the distinctive effects of three newly reported epigenetic modifications, including 5hmC, 5fC, and 5caC, on B-Z transition of CpG dinucleotide DNAs. We have performed detailed assays and compared their effects. We further studied the regulation of B-Z transition of CpG dinucleotide dodecamers by alternating oxidation and alternating reduction. 
,   We have previously identified SU(Z)12 as an E2F target gene. Because many E2F target genes encode proteins that are critical for the control of cell proliferation, we have further characterized the regulation and expression of SU(Z)12. To understand the molecular mechanisms responsible for expression of SU(Z)12 mRNA, we have analyzed the promoter region. We found that the SU(Z)12 gene is controlled by dual promoters, one of which functions bidirectionally. In addition to the E2F binding site, we have identified two binding sites for T cell factor (TCF)/beta-catenin complexes. Using gel mobility shift assays, we demonstrated that both TCF sites can be bound by TCF4. TCF/beta-catenin complexes have been shown to be a critical regulator of gene expression in tumors of the colon, breast, and liver. Accordingly, we have used chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to confirm that TCF4/beta-catenin complexes are bound to the SU(Z)12 promoter in colon cancer cells but not in HeLa cells. We next adapted the chromatin immunoprecipitation assay for use with primary colon tumor samples, and, using matched pairs of normal and tumor tissue obtained from several different colon cancer patients, we demonstrate that levels of beta-catenin bound to the SU(Z)12 promoter are increased in colon tumors. Finally, we show that the SU(Z)12 mRNA is up-regulated in a number of different human tumors, including tumors of the colon, breast, and liver. Recent studies have found that SU(Z)12 is a component of the Drosophila ESC-E(Z) and the human EED-EZH2 Polycomb chromatin remodeling complexes. Therefore, we suggest that SU(Z)12, which may modulate the tumor phenotype by changing gene expression profiles, may be a logical target for the design of a new antitumor agent
,   The total synthesis of C(20)-trifluoro-6(E),8(Z),11(Z),14(Z) 5-oxo-ETE is reported. This compound was designed as an ω-oxidation-resistant analog of 5-oxo-ETE that would be resistant to metabolism. The trifluoro derivative of 5-oxo-ETE stimulated calcium mobilization in neutrophils and desensitized these cells to subsequent exposure to 5-oxo-ETE.
,   [reaction: see text] Macrocyclic ring-closing olefin metathesis using ruthenium catalyst 3 was performed to produce a 14-membered lactone. The E/Z ratio of lactone was high regardless of the R group (auxiliary) or the initial alkene stereochemistry. A kinetic study demonstrates that the high E/Z ratio is due to secondary metathesis reactions that isomerize the product to the thermodynamic E/Z ratio.
,   The authors present a unique use of the Z osteotomy in the fifth metatarsal for correction of Tailor bunion. The rotational capabilities of the Z osteotomy are exploited to provide correction of fifth metatarsal lateral bowing and to decrease intermetatarsal angles. The osteotomy is inherently stable, and the design facilitates internal fixation.
,   The synthesis, antimicrobial activity and oral absorptivity of 7 beta-[(Z)-2-carboxymethoxyimino-2-arylacetamido]-3-cephem-4- carboxylic acids are described. The [(Z)-2-(2-amino-4-thiazolyl)-2-carboxymethoxyimino]acetyl group was selected as the most suitable 7-substituent from seven 7-acyl groups for our further investigation of orally active cephalosporins.
,   To evaluate the relative importance of alternating d(CG) sequence length, DNA supercoiling, and salt in left-handed Z-DNA formation, plasmids containing short d(CG)n sequences (n = 3-17) with the capability of replicating in either Escherichia coli or the halophilic archaeum Halobacterium halobium were constructed. Z-DNA conformation in the d(CG)n sequences was assayed by (i) a band shift assay using the Z-DNA-specific Z22 monoclonal antibody (ZIBS assay); (ii) an S1 nuclease cleavage-primer extension assay to map B-Z junctions; and (iii) a BssHII restriction inhibition assay. Using the ZIBS assay on plasmids purified from E. coli, the transition from B-DNA to Z-DNA occurred from d(CG)4, to d(CG)5, with 20% of d(CG)4, and 90% of d(CG)5 in Z-DNA conformation. These findings were consistent with the results of S1 nuclease cleavage observed at B-Z junctions flanking d(CG)4 and d(CG)5 sequences. Resistance to BssHII restriction endonuclease digestion was observed only in supercoiled plasmids containing d(CG)8 or longer sequences, indicating that shorter d(CG)n sequences are in dynamic equilibrium between B- and Z-DNA conformations. When a plasmid containing d(CG)4, was isolated from a topA mutant of E. coli, it contained 25% greater linking deficiency and 40% greater Z-DNA conformation in the alternating d(CG) region. In plasmids purified from H. halobium, which showed 30% greater linking deficiency than from E. coli, 20-40% greater Z-DNA formation was found in d(CG)4-6 sequences. Surprisingly, no significant difference in Z-DNA formation could be detected in d(CG)3-17 sequences in plasmids from either E. coli or H. halobium in the NaCl concentration range of 0.1-4 M.
,   A detector setup based on polycrystalline chemical-vapor-deposition diamond film is developed with great characteristics: low dark current (lower than 60 pA within 3 V/mum), fast pulsed response time (rise time: 2-3 ns), flat spectral response (3-5 keV), easy acquisition, low cost, and relative large sensitive area. The characterizing data on Qiangguang-I accelerator show that this detector can satisfy the practical requirements in Z-pinch plasma diagnosis very well, which offers a promising prototype for the x-ray detection in Z-pinch diagnosis.
,   The nonclassical ruthenium hydride pincer complex [Ru(PNP)(H)(2)(H(2))] 1 (PNP = 1,3-bis(di-tert-butyl-phosphinomethyl)pyridine) catalyzes the anti-Markovnikov addition of pinacolborane to terminal alkynes yielding Z-vinylboronates at mild conditions. The complex [Ru(PNP)(H)(2)(HBpin)] 2 (HBpin = pinacolborane), which was identified at the end of the reaction and prepared independently, is proposed as the direct precursor to the catalytic cycle involving rearrangement of coordinated alkyne to Z-vinylidene as a key step for the apparent trans-hydroboration.
,   Revealed are scaling properties for T(c)[rho], the kinetic-energy component of the correlation energy density functional for atoms, in terms of the total number of electrons N, the nuclear charge Z, and the total electron density at the nucleus rho(0). T(c) scales well as Nrho(0)/Z(8/3) for both neutral atoms up to Z=18 and the four-electron Be-like cationic species. A model is given that describes these findings, involving a density encoding the cusp information and an effective potential going like r(-4/3).
,   The structure and bonding of the gold-subhalide compounds Au144Cl60([z]) are related to those of the ubiquitous thiolated gold clusters, or Faradaurates, by iso-electronic substitution of thiolate by chloride. Exact I-symmetry holds for the [z] = [2+,4+] charge-states, in accordance with new electrospray mass spectrometry measurements and the predicted electron shell filling. The high symmetry facilitates analysis of the global structure as well as the bonding network, with some striking results. 
,   The Pd-catalyzed three-component reaction of 3-(pinacolatoboryl)allyl acetates, aldehydes, and organoboranes is described. The reaction is initiated by the formation of an allylic gem-palladium/boryl intermediate, which then undergoes allylation of aldehydes by allylboronates followed by a coupling reaction of in situ generated (Z)-vinylpalladium acetates with organoboranes to provide the (Z)-anti-homoallylic alcohols with high levels of diastereoselectivity and alkene stereocontrol. 
,   Several microorganisms produce small quantities of polyunsaturated hydrocarbons and such natural products are of interest. Starting from the ethyl ester of eicosapentaenoic acid, the total synthesis of the natural product (all-Z)-hentriaconta-3,6,9,12,15,19,22,25,28-nonaene has been achieved in eight steps and 15% overall yield. The synthesis is based on a stereoselective Wittig reaction and confirms the all-Z-configuration of the nine double bonds in this highly unsaturated natural product. 
,   The Z-stent was one of the first self-expanding metal prostheses used for palliation of malignant esophageal obstruction and respiratory esophageal fistula. Its placement has proved to be effective and relatively safe. This article reviews the evolution of the Z-stent; its multiple designs, placement technique, efficacy, complications, and assets and limitations.
,   The aim of this study was to explore a new method for transverse facial cleft correction to improve dynamic outcome.accordance with the traditional technique, we used another Z-plasty to reconstruct a commissure to obtain cosmetic outcome. contour of the baby's face was repaired, which is better than that achieved by the traditional technique.lasty is an ideal technique for transverse facial cleft correction.
,   (Z)-II-Tetradecenyl acetate is the reported sex pheromone of European corn borer and redbanded leafroller moths. However, geometrically pure preparations of the compound are weakly attractive to these species. Presence of the E geometrical isomer in the Z is necessary for maximum sex attraction and these moths are "tuned" to respond optimally to specific proportions of Z to E. This discovery is important to considerations of moth pheromonal specificity, evolution, and in application of knowledge of the pheromones to insect-pest suppression.
,   [reaction: see text] A mild and efficient methodology involving PdCl(2)-catalyzed cyclocarbonylation of 2-alkynols with CuCl(2) for the synthesis of (Z)-alpha-chloroalkylidene-beta-lactones was developed. Using the readily available optically active propargylic alcohols allows convenient synthesis of the corresponding (Z)-alpha-chloroalkylidene-beta-lactones with high ee values. cis-Chloropalladation was observed as the major pathway, which is unique as compared to the reported data.
,   25 undergraduate listeners judged that a male speaker with normal speech, who dentalized (lisped) or devoiced the /z/ phoneme in the context of a sentence, sounded significantly more "gay" in terms of judged sexual orientation than did the same speaker producing /z/ without phonological processes. Speech-language pathologists should be aware of possible social consequences of speech production disorders.
,   The preparation of a molecularly imprinted polymer against N-Z-L-glutamic acid using a novel bis-urea functional monomer is described. The polymer exhibits affinity for the template over N-Z-protected aspartic acid and glycine and, further, is capable of binding larger molecules, e.g., the anti-cancer drug methotrexate, containing the glutamate substructure.
,   The ability of Lewis acids to coordinate to transition metals as σ-acceptor ligands was recognized as early as in the 1970's, but so-called Z-type ligands remained curiosities until the early 2000's. Over the last decade, significant progress has been made in this area, especially via the incorporation of Lewis acid moieties into multidentate, ambiphilic ligands. Our understanding of the nature and influence of TM → Z interactions has considerably improved and the scope of Lewis acids susceptible to behave as σ-acceptor ligands has been significantly extended. This feature article summarizes these recent achievements.
,   Drosophila suppressor of zeste 12 (Su(z)12) is a Polycomb group (PcG) transcriptional repressor and is present in E(z)-ESC, a multiprotein complex with methylation activity specific for lysine 9 and 27 of histone H3. Although PcG- and heterochromatin-mediated gene silencing have been considered distinct, mutant flies of Su(z)12 showed not only homeotic transformation but also position effect variegation. We now report that the mammalian SU(Z)12 directly interacts with heterochromatin protein 1alpha (HP1alpha) and PcG enhancer of zeste 2 (EZH2), the mammalian counterpart of E(z), in vitro and in vivo. Two distinct domains in SU(Z)12 are involved in these interactions, the region between the zinc finger motif and the VEFS (VRN2-EMF2-FIS2-Su(z)12) box for HP1alpha (amino acid residues 479-536) and the VEFS box for EZH2 (amino acid residues 600-639), which are not mutually exclusive. Interestingly this region of the VEFS box has been shown to be critical for the phenotype of the Su(z)12 mutant fly. In addition SU(Z)12 represses transcription activity in the presence of HP1alpha in a reporter assay. These results provide a molecular explanation for the functional link of these epigenetic silencing processes mediated by Su(z)12.
,   A cw-probe Z-scan technique was employed to measure the photoinduced index change in a photorefractive SBN:60 crystal. For this experiment a three-detector data-acquisition system was used to account for temporal changes in the laser. The effects of various beam parameters such as intensity, polarization, and wavelength were studied. A theoretical simulation of the Z scan based on a band-transport model of photorefractive-index variation was also developed. This model provides reasonable agreement with the experimental results.
,   A technique of testicular homogenization and hemocytometric enumeration of elongated spermatids was applied to cockerels bearing Z-autosome translocations to estimate the effects of the translocations on sperm production. Testis weights, numbers of spermatids per gram of testis, and total number of spermatids were not significantly different between translocation-bearing cockerels and those of normal karyotype. In contrast to the adverse effects of X-autosome translocations on mammalian spermatogenesis, these data indicate that Z-autosome translocations do not quantitatively affect sperm production in cockerels.
,   Inner wall surface contamination of an ionization chamber by high-Z materials can produce an over-response to low-energy photons which is greatly underestimated by the percentage composition of the contaminant in the entire chamber. Experience with a chamber contaminated in such a manner is presented. Examples are included which illustrate the magnitude of possible clinical effects from low-energy units which have been calibrated with a chamber contaminated with a thin layer of relatively high-Z material.
,   Form V DNA has been prepared from pBR322 DNA by annealing covalently closed complementary single strands. Specific rabbit antibodies to Z-DNA were shown by radioimmunoassay and electron microscopy to react with form V DNA of pBR322. The bound antibodies were visualized either directly (on synthetic polynucleotides in Z-form), or after reaction with goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin labeled with ferritin (on form V DNA).
,   The sex pheromone for the winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.), has been identified as the novel compound (Z,Z,Z)-1,3,6,9-nonadecatetraene. The male moths respond to the pheromone at low temperatures (4 degrees to 15 degrees C) and exhibit an upper response limit that coincides with the lower response limit for other reported moth sex pheromone systems. The pheromone attracted two other geometrid species, O. bruceata (Bruce spanworm) and O. occidentalis.
,   The hypothesis of active Z disc expansion during supercontraction is re-examined using larval blowfly body-wall muscles. The previous results on glycerinated supercontracting fibres are confirmed. However, further observations on whole fibres stimulated to contract artifically and on skinned muscle fibres, as well as certain theoretical considerations, have led to the postulation of a passive mechanism. This mechanism is dependent upon mechanical continuity of the Z discs across the fibre.
,   Chromatographic and mass spectrometry studies of heptane extracts of the ovipositors of the iris borer,Macronoctua onusta, showed that the females produce several compounds that are the same as those produced by females of the tobacco budworm,Heliothis virescens. In trapping experiments, a mixture of (Z)-11-hexadecenal, (Z)-11-hexadecen-1-ol, and (Z)-9-tetradecenal (94∶4∶2) proved to be the minimum set of compounds required to cause effective capture of iris borer males in the field. 
,   Lipoxygenases (LOs) convert polyunsaturated fatty acids into lipid hydroperoxides. Homolytic decomposition of lipid hydroperoxides gives rise to endogenous genotoxins such as 4-oxo-2(E)-nonenal, which cause the formation of mutagenic DNA adducts. Chiral lipidomics analysis was employed to show that a 5-LO-derived lipid hydroperoxide was responsible for endogenous DNA-adduct formation. The study employed human lymphoblastoid CESS cells, which expressed both 5-LO and the required 5-LO-activating protein (FLAP). The major lipid peroxidation product was 5(S)-hydroperoxy-6,8,11,14-(E,Z,Z,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid, which was analyzed as its reduction product, 5(S)-hydroxy-6,8,11,14-(E,Z,Z,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid (5(S)-HETE)). Concentrations of 5(S)-HETE increased from 0.07 +/- 0.01 to 45.50 +/- 4.05 pmol/10(7) cells upon stimulation of the CESS cells with calcium ionophore A23187. There was a concomitant increase in the 4-oxo-2(E)-nonenal-derived DNA-adduct, heptanone-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine (HepsilondGuo) from 2.41 +/- 0.35 to 6.31 +/- 0.73 adducts/10(7) normal bases. Biosynthesis of prostaglandins, 11(R)-hydroxy-5,8,12,14-(Z,Z,E,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid, and 15(R,S)-hydroxy-5,8,11,13-(Z,Z,Z,E)-eicosatetraenoic acid revealed that there was cyclooxygenase (COX) activity in the CESS cells. Western blot analysis revealed that COX-1 was expressed by the cells, but there was no COX-2 or 15-LO-1. FLAP inhibitor reduced HepsilondGuo-adducts and 5(S)-HETE to basal levels. In contrast, aspirin, which had no effect on 5(S)-HETE, blocked the formation of prostaglandins, 15-HETE, and 11-HETE but did not inhibit HepsilondGuo-adduct formation. These data showed that 5-LO was the enzyme responsible for the generation of the HepsilondGuo DNA-adduct in CESS cells.
,   Biocatalyst mediated regio- and stereo-selective hydroxylation and epoxidation on (Z)-α-santalol were achieved for the first time, using a fungal strain Mucor piriformis. Four novel metabolites were characterized as 10,11-cis-β-epoxy-α-santalol, 5α-hydroxy-(Z)-α-santalol, 10,11-dihydroxy-α-santalol and 5α-hydroxy-10,11-cis-β-epoxy-α-santalol. Using Amano PS lipase from Burkholderia cepacia, α- and β-isomers of 10,11-cis-epoxy-α-santalol were resolved efficiently. 
,   Japanese management techniques have been the subject of much interest over the past few years. However, American culture does not lend itself to strict adherence to Japanese practices. Theory Z is a management philosophy that blends Japanese and American techniques and is currently being practiced in many areas of the business world. With some work, Theory Z can be incorporated into health care organizations in general,and radiology departments in particular.
,   The extracellular and intracellular metabolites formed upon exposure of activated sludge microorganisms to a sublethal concentration of N-ethylmaleimide were monitored by liquid chromatography with ion trap mass spectrometry. The metabolite N-ethylsuccinimido-S-glutathione (m/z 433) was converted rapidly to N-(2-oxoethyl)-2,2-(propionylamino)propanamide (m/z 187) and N-ethylmaleamic acid (m/z 144).
,   The ichneumonid wasp genus Zaglyptus Förster, 1868 is reported for the first time from Vietnam, with three species found in the country. One new species, Zaglyptus guptai sp. nov., is described based on material collected in Chu Yang Sin NP, Dak Lak Province. Two other species, Z. glaber Gupta and Z. nigrolineatus, Gupta are recorded as new for the country. In addition, the subspecies Z glaber singaporensis Gupta is synonymised with the nominate subspecies.
,   A common strategy for the stereoselective and protecting group-free total synthesis of the myxobacterial antibiotics myxothiazole Z, (14S)-melithiazole G and (14S)-cystothiazole F is described featuring an asymmetric organocatalytic transfer hydrogenation, a palladium-catalyzed Stille coupling and a cross-metathesis as the key steps.
,   The new compound Z-4-2 was isolated from the fermentation broth of Streptomyces djakartensis NW35, together with the known compound N-acetyltryptamine (Z-9-2) by bioassay-guided fractionation. Its chemical structure was elucidated as (E)-2-methoxy-1,4 naphthoquinone-1-oxime (Z-4-2) mainly by NMR analyses and MS spectral data. Their antibacterial activities against bacteria were evaluated by the filter paper method. The results of indicated that these compounds possess significant antibacterial activities.
,   We report a new variation of the conventional Z-scan method to characterize the third-order optical nonlinearity of photonic materials. By exploiting the combination of the eclipse Z-scan with a thermal nonlinearity management technique, we demonstrate an improvement in sensitivity and flexibility of the method to simultaneously characterize the thermal and nonthermal nonlinearity of optical materials. The method is demonstrated by measuring the nonlinear refractive index in CS(2), SiO(2) and H(2)O, standard materials, and also in a biomaterial, the amino acid Tryptophan in water solution, using a femtosecond Ti-Sapphire laser operating at 76MHz repetition rate.
,   We report the development of (E)- and (Z)-4-hydroxytamoxifen sulfamates as estrone sulfatase inhibitors, potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of breast cancer. Both compounds competitively inhibit estrone sulfatase isolated from rat liver with apparent Ki of 35.9 microM for (E)-4-hydroxytamoxifen sulfamate and an apparent Ki of > 500 microM for the (Z) isomer.
,   Ultrahigh energy neutrinos (UHEnu) scatter on relic neutrinos (Rnu) producing Z bosons, which can decay hadronically producing protons (Z burst). We compare the predicted proton spectrum with the observed ultrahigh energy cosmic ray (UHECR) spectrum and determine the mass of the heaviest Rnu via a maximum likelihood analysis. Our prediction depends on the origin of the powerlike part of the UHECR spectrum: m(nu) = 2.75(+1.28)(-0.97) eV for Galactic halo and 0.26(+0.20)(-0.14) eV for extragalactic origin. The necessary UHEnu flux should be detected in the near future.
,   Zolpidem, zopiclone, and zaleplon are commonly referred to as the "Z-drugs." The Z-drugs are nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia. Since becoming widely prescribed as sleep aids in the United States, they are increasingly being detected in a variety of forensic specimens. We present a comprehensive overview of the basic chemistry, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacokinetics of zolpidem, zopiclone, and zaleplon, including their interaction with other prescription drugs and ethanol, findings in drug-facilitated sexual assault (DFSA) casework, and methods of analysis. 
,   Let f(z) = z + ∑(n=2)(∞) (a)n(z) (n) be analytic in the unit disk with the second coefficient a2 satisfying |a2| = 2b, 0 ≤ b ≤ 1. Sharp radius of Janowski starlikeness is obtained for functions f whose nth coefficient satisfies |a(n)| ≤ cn + d (c, d ≥ 0) or |a(n)| ≤ c/n  (c > 0 and n ≥ 3). Other radius constants are also obtained for these functions, and connections with earlier results are made.
,   Two additional anthraquinone derivatives containing a (Z)-dienyl side-chain, dehydroanthrasesamones A (2) and B (3), were isolated from a hairy root culture of Sesamum indicum after preventing light throughout all experimental procedures. Their respective structures were determined to be 1-hydroxy-2-[(Z)-4-methylpenta-1,3-dien-1-yl]anthraquinone and 1,4-dihydroxy-2-[(Z)-4-methylpenta-1,3-dien-1-yl]anthraquinone by spectroscopic methods.
,   Isospin symmetry is expected for the T(z)=+/-1-->0 isobaric analogous transitions in isobars with mass number A, where T(z) is the z component of isospin T. Assuming this symmetry, strengths of analogous Gamow-Teller (GT) transitions within A = 50 isobars were determined from a high energy-resolution study at 0 degrees in combination with the decay Q value and lifetime from the beta decay. This method can be applied to other pf-shell nuclei and can be used to study GT strengths of astrophysical interest.
,   A multiinstitution collaboration is developing a neutron imaging system for the Sandia Z facility. The initial system design is for slit aperture imaging system capable of obtaining a one-dimensional image of a 2.45 MeV source producing 5x10(12) neutrons with a resolution of 320 microm along the axial dimension of the plasma, but the design being developed can be modified for two-dimensional imaging and imaging of DT neutrons with other resolutions. This system will allow us to understand the spatial production of neutrons in the plasmas produced at the Z facility.
,   Ajoene, a garlic stable oil-soluble sulfur rich compound was generally isolated as a mixture of two isomers [(E, Z)-4,5,9-trithiadodeca-1,6,11-triene-9-oxide]. It has been described essentially as a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation in vitro and in vivo. The antiproliferative effects of ajoene and experiments using a single isomer had received little attention. The present study aims at defining the antitumor activities of cis-Z-ajoene in vitro and in vivo. Antiproliferative activity of Z-ajoene was demonstrated against a panel of human tumor cell lines with IC(50) values varying from 5.2 mM to 26.1 mM and at a lower extent in normal marsupial kidney cells (PtK2). Meanwhile, Z-ajoene arrested HL60 cells in G(2)/M phase of cell cycle in a dose and time-dependent way. In PtK2 cells, exposure to 20 microM Z-ajoene for 6 h induced a complete disassembly of the microtubule network, that was associated with an increased number of cells blocked in early mitotic stages. An IC(50) for microtubule disassembly of 1 microM was determined by a fully automated microplate-based multi-detection reader. In vitro, a reversible inhibition of the microtubule protein assembly was observed with an IC(50) of 25 microM Z-ajoene. In vivo, Z-ajoene inhibited tumor growth by 38% and 42% in mice grafted with sarcoma 180 and hepatocarcinoma 22, respectively. For the first time, Z-ajoene was shown to be a potent inhibitor of tumor cell growth both in vitro and in vivo. The microtubule cytoskeleton appeared to be one of the Z-ajoene targets, but the mechanisms by which Z-ajoene interacted with microtubule appeared different from those of other microtubule poisons such as those of the Vinca alkaloids family. The ability of Z-ajoene to preferentially suppress the growth of neoplastic cells could provide a new approach in tumor therapy.
,   We consider the spin-1/2 model on the honeycomb lattice in the presence of a weak magnetic field hα << 1. Such a perturbation destroys the exact integrability of the model in terms of gapless fermions and static Z2 fluxes. We show that it results in the appearance of a long-range tail in the irreducible dynamic spin correlation function: <<s(z)(t,r)s(z)(0,0)>> ∝ h(z)(2)f(t,r), where f(t,r) ∝ [max(t,r)]-4 is proportional to the density polarization function of fermions.
,   The Z-plasty is a useful procedure in surgery of the upper limb for lengthening skin along a selected axis, for breaking up a straight line, and for obliterating webs. At least six geometric variables are considered in designing a conventional Z-plasty, and several modified designs must be considered. Geometrical models are useful guides in design, but biomechanical features are also important and must be incorporated in the plan.
,   We investigate theoretically fermionic superfluidity induced by Feshbach resonance in the orbital p-wave channel and determine the general phase diagram. In contrast with superfluid (3)He, due to the dipole interaction, the pairing is extremely anisotropic. When this dipole interaction is relatively strong, the pairing has symmetry k(z). When it is relatively weak, it is of symmetry k(z) + ibetak(y) (up to a rotation about z;, here beta < 1). A phase transition between these two states can occur under a change in the magnetic field or the density of the gas.
,   This article points out the significance of the internatal cleft for the formation of pilonidal sinus. Elimination of the internatal cleft by means of Z-plasty carries the smallest recurrence rate. The author, in an attempt to eliminate this small recurrence rate, applied a modified Z-plasty which is described in the present communication, and which was successfully applied in a series of cases of pilonidal sinus.
,   Infrared spectra of the B and Z forms of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) are presented. Experimental assignments relative to certain vibration modes have been confirmed by calculation based on the GF-Wilson method. The calculated results show that only the geometry change between B and Z forms, is responsible for the observed modifications in the vibrational spectra.
,   Hydroamidation of electron-deficient terminal alkynes by amides in presence of Pd-catalyst has been exploited for the stereoselective synthesis of Z-enamides. The possible intramolecular hydrogen bonding between the amido proton and carbonyl oxygen of ester group provides the extra stability to the Z-isomer of vinyl-palladium complex, which subsequently undergoes protodepalladation and leads to the Z-enamide selectively. This process is found to be mild and operationally simple with broad substrate scope.
,   We explore quark interactions mediated by new gauge bosons of masses in the 0.3-50 GeV range. A tight upper limit on the gauge coupling of light Z(') bosons is imposed by the anomaly cancellation conditions in conjunction with collider bounds on new charged fermions. Limits from quarkonium decays are model dependent, while electroweak constraints are mild. We derive the limits for a Z(') boson coupled to baryon number and then construct a Z(') model with relaxed constraints, allowing quark couplings as large as 0.2 for a mass of a few GeV.
,   Parafermion zero energy modes are a vital element of fault-tolerant topological quantum computation. Although it is believed that such modes form on the border between topological and normal phases, this has been demonstrated only for Z(2) (Majorana) and Z(3) parafermions. I consider an integrable model of one-dimensional fermions where such a demonstration is possible for Z(N) parafermions with any N. The procedure is easily generalizable for more complicated symmetry groups.
,   In this paper the structure of the most important fragment ion ([C5H9O2]+, m/z 101) in the spectra of permethylated saccharides is investigated. The participation of the C-1 carbon atom in the formation of this ion has been quantitatively determined from the spectra of 13C labelled permethylated glucofuranosides. Investigation of the metastable ion and collisional activation spectra of m/z 101 yielded evidence for an acylic ion structure.
,   Synthetic methods of highly stereocontrolled E- and Z-allylsilanes were developed. When a toluene solution of diene having a silicon moiety and aldehyde was refluxed in the presence of silane using a catalytic amount of Ni(cod)(2) bearing PPh(3), E-allylsilane was obtained in high yield. On the other hand, when the reaction was carried out in THF upon heating in the presence of Ni(cod)(2), imidazolium salt, Cs(2)CO(3), and PPh(3), Z-allylsilane was formed as a sole product.
,   A 40-year-male treated with hip screw for unstable inter trochanteric fracture femur, had an implant failure after an aggressive therapy session .The Dynamic Condylar Screw was removed and fracture was fixed with Proximal Femoral Nail. The nail also failed to achieve its goal of fracture union, as a result of a unique type of reverse Z effect, in contradiction to expected Z effect resulting in intrapelvic migration of proximal hip lag screw of the proximal femoral nail. 
,   As the first step in an investigation of roles played by fatty acylation of G protein alpha chains in membrane targeting and signal transmission, we inserted monoclonal antibody epitopes, hemagglutinin (HA) or Glu-Glu (EE), at two internal sites in three alpha subunits. At site I, only HA-tagged alpha q and alpha z functioned normally. alpha s, alpha q, and alpha z subunits tagged at site II with the EE epitope showed normal expression, membrane localization, and signaling activity. Using epitope-tagged alpha z, we investigated effects of mutations in sites for fatty acylation. Mutational substitution of Ala for Gly2 (G2A) prevented incorporation of myristate and decreased but did not abolish incorporation of palmitate. Substitution of Ala for Cys3 (C3A) prevented incorporation of palmitate but had no effect on incorporation of myristate. Substitution of Ala for both Gly2 and Cys3 (G2AC3A) prevented incorporation of both myristate and palmitate. All three mutations substantially disrupted association of alpha z with the particulate fraction. Gz-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, triggered by activation of the D2-dopamine receptor, was, respectively, abolished (G2AC3A), impaired (G2A), and enhanced (C3A). Constitutive inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by alpha z was unchanged (G2AC3A), strongly diminished (G2A), or strongly enhanced (C3A). A nonacylated, mutationally activated alpha z mutant inhibited adenylyl cyclase, although less potently than normally acylated, mutationally activated alpha z. From these findings we conclude: (a) fatty acylations of alpha z increase its association with membranes; (b) myristoylation is not required for palmitoylation of alpha z or for its productive interactions with adenylyl cyclase; (c) palmitoylation is not required for, but may instead inhibit, signaling by alpha z.
,   A simple and convenient procedure for stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-allyl selenides has been developed by a one-pot reaction of diselenides with Baylis-Hillman adducts in the presence of samarium metal-trimethylsilyl chloride under mild conditions. Presumably, the diselenides are cleaved by Sm/TMSCl system to form selenide anions, which then undergo S(N)2' substitution of Baylis-Hillman adducts to produce the (Z)-allyl selenides.
,   We study by first-principles molecular dynamics the mechanism of electron hole (positive charge) localization in a laboratory realizable radical cation Z DNA crystal. We find that at room temperature structural deformation does not provide an efficient localization mechanism. Instead, we find evidence for the importance of changes in the protonation state for stabilizing the radical defect.
,   We have experimentally studied the spin-induced time reversal symmetry (TRS) breaking as a function of the relative strength of the Zeeman energy (E(Z)) and the Rashba spin-orbit interaction energy (E(SOI)), in InGaAs-based 2D electron gases. We find that the TRS breaking, and hence the associated dephasing time tau(phi)(B), saturates when E(Z) becomes comparable to E(SOI). Moreover, we show that the spin-induced TRS breaking mechanism is a universal function of the ratio E(Z)/E(SOI), within the experimental accuracy.
,   [reaction: see text] The dipolarophilic reactivity of enantiopure (Z)-3-p-tolylsulfinylacrylonitriles (1) has been evaluated with diazoalkanes. 3-Cyanopyrazoles are obtained when R = H, but with R = alkyl (Bn, n-Bu, and t-Bu) only one cycloadduct (4 or 5) is formed in high yield under mild conditions, therefore evidencing a complete control of the regioselectivity and the endo/exo and pi-facial selectivities. These reactions are a new straightforward entry to the synthesis of pyrazolines and related structures and reveal the excellent dipolarophilic features of (Z)-sulfinylacrylonitriles.
,   [reaction: see text] Effects of metal cation recognition on photosensitized E-Z isomerization of 1,2-dichloroethylene have been investigated with two types of m,p- and o,o'-podand (oligo-oxyethylene unit) benzophenones 2 and 3. With increasing cation size, the %Z ratio at the photostationary state was changed from 67 to 91% for 2 but remained almost unchanged (86-88%) for 3. These results were interpreted in terms of the variation of excited triplet energy, E(T), associated with the cation complexation of these photosensitizers 2 and 3.
,   In order to elucidate the detailed Z-DNA interaction with polyamines and also to clarify the mutual molecular recognition between the left-handed helix and the biologically important polyamine molecule, several polyamine-Z-DNA hexamer complexes were crystallized and their crystal structures were determined by X-ray diffraction. The general interaction modes found in these crystal structures were discussed in comparison with those in the complexes between polyamine and the right-handed DNA or RNA.
,   We study critical adsorption in the small surface field (h(1)) limit using a homologous series of critical liquid mixtures. The experiment data, in the one-phase regime, is accurately described by a universal surface scaling function G+(z/xi(+),z/l(h)) at distance z from the interface with correlation length xi(+) and surface field length l(h) approximately absolute value of (h(1))(-nu/Delta(1)), where h(1) approximately Deltasigma, the surface energy difference between the two components.
,   We demonstrated the Talbot effect using a broadband hard x-ray beam (Δλ/λ ~1). The exit wave-field of the x-ray beam passing through a grating with a sub micro-meter scale period was successfully replicated and recorded at effective Talbot distance, Z(T). The period was reduced to half at Z(T)/4 and 3/4Z(T), and the phase reversal was observed at Z(T)/2. The propagating wave-field recorded on photoresists was consistent with a simulated result.
,   Ouchi's Theory Z prescribes how employees should be motivated for increased productivity. Based on the theoretical work of Emile Durkheim, it views the modern large corporation as a communal alternative to the shortcomings of other institutions in industrial mass society. Ouchi's assertion that Japan is the industrial society in which Theory Z has flourished received limited support from research findings. Moreover, Ouchi's grounding of the theory in humanistic management seem unwarranted.
,   A series of model DCC-mediated couplings of Z-Pro-D-Leu-OH with 2,3-benzo-10-aza-1,4,7,13-tetraoxacyclopentadeca-2-ene were studied by high-performance liquid chromatography. It was found that racemization during preparation of N-(Z-Pro-Leu-)benzoaza-15-crown-5 is promoted by HOBT, an additive usually reducing this process.
,   [reaction: see text] The Lewis acid-promoted Diels-Alder reaction of (E,Z,E)-trienal 1 provides not only the expected cis-fused cycloadduct 16 but also the trans-fused products 17 and 18. Trans-fused cycloadducts 17 and 18 are also products of the Lewis acid-promoted cyclization of (E,Z,E)-trienyl acetal 2. These products presumably derive from a stepwise cyclization pathway.
,   The title achiral peptide N-benzyloxycarbonyl-α-aminoisobutyryl-α-aminoisobutyryl-α-aminoisobutyrylglycine tert-butyl ester or Z-Aib-Aib-Aib-Gly-OtBu (Aib is α-aminoisobutyric acid, Z is benzyloxycarbonyl, Gly is glycine and OtBu indicates the tert-butyl ester), C26H40N4O7, is partly hydrated (0.075H2O) and has two different conformations which together constitute the asymmetric unit. Both molecules form incipient 310-helices. They differ in the relative orientation of the N-terminal protection group and at the C-terminus. There are two 4→1 intramolecular hydrogen bonds. 
,   We previously published the performance evaluation of an automated electroencephalography (EEG)-based single-channel sleep-wake detection algorithm called Z-ALG used by the Zmachine(®) sleep monitoring system. The objective of this paper is to evaluate the performance of a new algorithm called Z-PLUS, which further differentiates sleep as detected by Z-ALG into Light Sleep, Deep Sleep, and Rapid Eye Movement (REM) Sleep, against laboratory polysomnography (PSG) using a consensus of expert visual scorers.gle night, in-lab PSG recordings from 99 subjects (52F/47M, 18-60 years, median age 32.7 years), including both normal sleepers and those reporting a variety of sleep complaints consistent with chronic insomnia, sleep apnea, and restless leg syndrome, as well as those taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor/serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor antidepressant medications, previously evaluated using Z-ALG were re-examined using Z-PLUS. EEG data collected from electrodes placed at the differential-mastoids (A1-A2) were processed by Z-ALG to determine wake and sleep, then those epochs detected as sleep were further processed by Z-PLUS to differentiate into Light Sleep, Deep Sleep, and REM. EEG data were visually scored by multiple certified polysomnographic technologists according to the Rechtschaffen and Kales criterion, and then combined using a majority-voting rule to create a PSG Consensus score file for each of the 99 subjects. Z-PLUS output was compared to the PSG Consensus score files for both epoch-by-epoch (eg, sensitivity, specificity, and kappa) and sleep stage-related statistics (eg, Latency to Deep Sleep, Latency to REM, Total Deep Sleep, and Total REM).sitivities of Z-PLUS compared to the PSG Consensus were 0.84 for Light Sleep, 0.74 for Deep Sleep, and 0.72 for REM. Similarly, positive predictive values were 0.85 for Light Sleep, 0.78 for Deep Sleep, and 0.73 for REM. Overall, kappa agreement of 0.72 is indicative of substantial agreement.s study demonstrates that Z-PLUS can automatically assess sleep stage using a single A1-A2 EEG channel when compared to the sleep stage scoring by a consensus of polysomnographic technologists. Our findings suggest that Z-PLUS may be used in conjunction with Z-ALG for single-channel EEG-based sleep staging.
,   3'-Azidonucleosides 4 have been synthesized by condensation of silylated (Z)-5-ethylidenehydantoin and (Z)-5-benzylidenehydantoin with methyl 3-azido-5-O-tert-butyldiphenylsilyl-2,3-dideoxy-D-erythro-pento furanoside (3). The nucleosides 4 were deblocked on treatment with tetrabutylammonium fluoride. The ethylidene group isomerized from Z to E configuration during the nucleoside synthesis. The new nucleosides did not show any appreciable activities against HIV-1 or HSV-1.
,   Cyclotriphosphazenes have been functionalized with various oxo-groups at one of the ring phosphorus atoms. Starting from geminal dichlorides (A) which are equipped with amino groups at the other two phosphorus atoms {(Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)PCl(2) (Z' = NHCy) and (Z''P)(2)N(3)PCl(2) (Z'' = {EtN(C(3)H(6))NEt}), respectively}, phosphate (B), pyrophosphate (C), phosphamide (D), and phosphite (E) derivatives have been prepared. The zwitterionic phosphate (Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)H(2)PO(2) B is obtained via the 4-dimethylamino pyridine (dmap)-catalyzed hydrolysis of A in a biphasic mixture of aqueous KOH and tetrahydrofuran (thf). B contains a PO(2) moiety neighboring two protonated ring nitrogen sites. It crystallizes as the tetrahydrate (Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)H(2)PO(2).4H(2)O, which consists of a double helix: A helical chain of hydrogen bonded zwitterions is intertwined with a helical chain of water molecules. The reaction of A with only dmap in CHCl(3) produces the dication [(Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)P(dmap)(2)](2+), which binds two dmap ligands at one phosphorus atom. The tetrahydrate dehydrates at 160 degrees C in vacuo under formation of the pyrophosphate {(Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)HPO}(2)O C, which contains a O=P-O-P=O residue linking the two phosphazene rings. When heated in a mixture of aqueous KOH, primary amine, and thf, A undergoes a concurrent aminolysis-hydrolysis reaction, which gives the phosphamide (Z(2)P)(2)N(3)HP(O)NHR D featuring a P(=O)NHR residue. The corresponding reaction of A with alpha,alpha'-diamino-p-xylene in a 2:1 ratio leads to the formation of {(Z'(2)P)(2)N(3)HP(O)NHCH(2)}(2)C(6)H(4), in which two phosphamide moieties are linked by a xylylene bridge. Phosphites E containing PHO moieties are obtained via reduction of the dichloride with potassium and subsequent treatment with KOH. The product consists of a hexameric potassium complex, which features a central K(6)O(6) double cube arrangement and contains the anionic ligand [(Z''P)(2)N(3)PHO](-) that offers two bidentate N-P-O coordination sites. Addition of NH(4)Cl yields the neutral phosphite (Z''P)(2)N(3)HPHO. The title compounds are amphiphilic featuring hydrophilic NH and PO(x) moieties and hydrophobic alkyl groups. In addition, they show amphiprotic behavior via protonation/deprotonation at ring N atoms.
,   A simple preparation of Ac-Arg-(p-TosH or HCl)-NHMe is described. The NG-protonated Z-Arg was coupled with methylamine by the mixed anhydride method. Z-Arg-NHMe was purified as a NG-p-toluene sulfonate salt by crystallization from water. After removal of the Z group by catalytic hydrogenation and acetylation Ac-Arg(p-TosH)-NHMe was obtained. Ac-Arg(HCl)-NHMe was prepared by chromatography of the NG-TosH derivative on Dowex 44 (in Cl- form).
,   Simulations of a double Z-pinch hohlraum, relevant to the high-yield inertial-confinement-fusion concept, predict that through geometry design the time-integrated P2 Legendre mode drive asymmetry can be systematically controlled from positive to negative coefficient values. Studying capsule elongation, recent experiments on Z confirm such control by varying the secondary hohlraum length. Since the experimental trend and optimum length are correctly modeled, confidence is gained in the simulation tools; the same tools predict capsule drive uniformity sufficient for high-yield fusion ignition.
,   A reversed-phase, C-18 HPLC method for separation, with baseline resolution, of the chitin synthase inhibitors nikkomycin X and Z is described. This permits, for the first time, satisfactory identification of nikkomycin X and Z contained in a mixture. The use of 30 mM ammonium formate (pH 4.7) containing the ion-pair agent heptanesulfonic acid (1 mM) was critical for the successful separation of these fungicides.
,   Several arenaviruses cause hemorrhagic fever (HF) disease in humans that is associated with high morbidity and significant mortality. Arenavirus nucleoprotein (NP), the most abundant viral protein in infected cells and virions, encapsidates the viral genome RNA, and this NP-RNA complex, together with the viral L polymerase, forms the viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP) that directs viral RNA replication and gene transcription. Formation of infectious arenavirus progeny requires packaging of vRNPs into budding particles, a process in which arenavirus matrix-like protein (Z) plays a central role. In the present study, we have characterized the NP-Z interaction for the prototypic arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). The LCMV NP domain that interacted with Z overlapped with a previously documented C-terminal domain that counteracts the host type I interferon (IFN) response. However, we found that single amino acid mutations that affect the anti-IFN function of LCMV NP did not disrupt the NP-Z interaction, suggesting that within the C-terminal region of NP different amino acid residues critically contribute to these two distinct and segregable NP functions. A similar NP-Z interaction was confirmed for the HF arenavirus Lassa virus (LASV). Notably, LCMV NP interacted similarly with both LCMV Z and LASV Z, while LASV NP interacted only with LASV Z. Our results also suggest the presence of a conserved protein domain within NP but with specific amino acid residues playing key roles in determining the specificity of NP-Z interaction that may influence the viability of reassortant arenaviruses. In addition, this NP-Z interaction represents a potential target for the development of antiviral drugs to combat human-pathogenic arenaviruses.
,   Intershell higher-order (HO) electronic recombination is reported for highly charged Ar, Fe, and Kr ions, where simultaneous excitation of one K-shell electron and one or two additional L-shell electrons occurs upon resonant capture of a free electron. For the mid-Z region, HO resonance strengths grow unexpectedly strong with decreasing atomic number Z (∝Z(-4)), such that, for Ar ions the 2nd-order overwhelms the 1st-order resonant recombination considerably. The experimental findings are confirmed by multiconfiguration Dirac-Fock calculations including hitherto neglected excitation pathways.
,   (Z)-5-Decenyl, (Z)-7-dodecenyl, and (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate were tested as single compounds and blends for field attraction to the turnip moth in Denmark, France, Hungary, and Switzerland. Best attraction was obtained when all three components were present. Attractants for other noctuids are described, e.g.,Meristis trigrammica, Hoplodrina alsines, Erastria trabealis, Euxoa nigricans, Axylia putris, andAutographa gamma, which were caught with some of the components and their blends. 
,   Poor semen quality has long been associated with bull infertility. However, the molecular basis in spermatozoa cells underlying the mechanisms of bull infertility remain unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there is any protein in bovine spermatozoa related to semen quality. Semen samples from 18 Brahman bulls, 3 to 10 yrs of age, were assessed for semen quality in terms of spermatozoa motility and spermatozoa morphology. Spermatozoa extracts were separated using 2D-PAGE followed by staining with Coomassie blue. At least one duplicate gel was performed for each sample. Each gel was scanned with an ImageScanner System and analyzed for spots by ImageMaster 2D platinum software. The related protein spot(s) with semen quality was cut from the gel and identified by LC MS/MS. The results showed that at least 600 protein spots were detected in the spermatozoa extracts of the Brahman bulls. Of all these spots, there were 3 of 56 kDa at pI 6.4, 6.6 and 6.8 (Z(1), Z(2) and Z(3), respectively) that clearly showed different expression pattern among 18 Brahman bulls. Of 18 bulls (a) five showed the presence of spot Z(1) and Z(2) (pattern A) (b) one of spot Z(3) (pattern B) (c) five of spot Z(2) and Z(3) (pattern C) (d) one of spot Z(1) (pattern D) and (e) six of spot Z(2) (pattern E). Identification of spot Z(1), Z(2) and Z(3) by LC MS/MS had a similar result as matched to the tektin-4 protein of Bos taurus with a respective score of 171, 557 and 591. The statistical analysis of the 56 kDa protein patterns, tektin-4, indicated a significant effect on spermatozoa motility (P < 0.05) albeit non-significant on spermatozoa morphology. The bulls which showed pattern A had a higher percentage of spermatozoa motility than pattern E (P < 0.05) and not different from pattern C (P > 0.05). The statistical analysis also revealed that the presence of spot Z(1) had an effect on the percentage of spermatozoa motility (P < 0.01), whereas the presence of spot Z(2) and Z(3) had no effect (P > 0.05). The correlation coefficient between the relative protein content of spot Z(1) and the percentage of spermatozoa motility was 0.49. Our study demonstrates that the expression patterns of tektin-4 were a proxy for an effect on spermatozoa motility and consequently bull infertility. It may be that these protein patterns can be used as markers for improving bovine reproduction.
,   Previous studies have demonstrated that conventional actin preparations contain a potent factor which reduces the low shear viscosity of actin filaments. In this paper we demonstrate that Cap Z(36/32), a recently described protein from skeletal muscle that caps the barbed end of actin filaments and localizes to the Z-line of skeletal muscle, is the major factor affecting the low shear viscosity of actin prepared from muscle as described by Spudich and Watt.
,   Zimmer, Z., & Chen, F.-F. Social Support and Change in Depression Among Older Adults in Taiwan. Journal of Applied Gerontology, 31(6),764-782. 
,   Using the density matrix renormalization group on wide cylinders, we study the phase diagram of the spin-1/2 XY model on the honeycomb lattice, with first-neighbor (J1=1) and frustrating second-neighbor (J2>0) interactions. For the intermediate frustration regime 0.22≲J2≲0.36, we find a surprising antiferromagnetic Ising phase, with ordered moments pointing along the z axis, despite the absence of any S(z)S(z) interactions in the Hamiltonian. Surrounding this phase as a function of J2 are antiferromagnetic phases with the moments pointing in the x-y plane for small J2 and a close competition between an x-y plane magnetic collinear phase and a dimer phase for large values of J2. We do not find any spin-liquid phases in this model.
,   The DNAs of several plant viruses were analyzed for the presence of alternating purine-pyrimidine sequences that can potentially undergo B to Z transition. The DNA of the caulimoviruses (plant retroviruses) was compared with that of the geminiviruses, with the cDNA of an RNA plant virus, and with several computer-generated random sequences. Our analysis indicates that potential Z-DNA sites tend to be restricted in the DNA of the caulimoviruses, whereas the same does not occur significantly in the other viral DNAs examined. This result is discussed in relation to the mode of replication of the caulimoviral DNA and offers additional evidence of the existence of selection processes regulating the frequency and distribution of the Z-DNA sites in the different genomes.
,   To establish the characteristic fingerprint of Zanthoxylum nitidum by HPLC, and to provide a reference for the quality control of Z. nitidum in the market. established HPLC characteristic fingerprint of Z. nitidum, combined with similarity evaluation and system clustering analysis method, were applied to distinguish 25 batches of samples purchased from market preliminarily, to identify the authenticity and quality of Z. nitidum ingredients.the 25 batches of samples purchased from market, only 8 batches were identified as genuine with good quality, 7 batches were identified as defective, 7 batches were identified as common counterfeit Toddalia asiatica, and 3 batches were identified as counterfeit.s method is accurate, convenient and reliable. It can be used for identification and quality control of Z. nitidum ingredients.
,   Crystal structures of the hexanucleotide d(CACGCG)·d(CGCGTG) were determined in two crystal lattices when different concentrations of the counterion Mn2+ were used in crystallization. The availability of Mn2+ during the crystallization process appears to play an important role in inducing different crystal packings that lead to crystals belonging to the two space groups P2(1) and P6(5). Analysis of the molecular interactions of Mn2+ with the Z-form duplexes shows direct coordination to the purine residues G and A.
,   (Z)-tetracos-5-enoic acid and racemic cis-4-(2-octadecylcyclopropane-1-yl)-butanoic acid have been prepared from 1-eicosene by a new facile route. Periodic acid cleavage of the epoxide of 1-eicosene gave nonadecanal which was condensed with 4-carboxybutyltriphenylphosphonium bromide to give predominately (Z)-tetracos-5-enoic acid. Simmons-Smith type cyclopropanation of (Z)-tetracos-5-enoic acid gave a minor proportion of racemic cis-4-(2-octadecylcyclopropane-1-yl)-butanoic acid accompanied by major amounts of its methyl ester.
,   We study the integrated Sachs-Wolfe effect using a model-independent parametrization of the dark energy equation of state, w(z). Cosmic variance severely restricts the class of models distinguishable from one based on cold dark matter and a cosmological constant unless w(z) currently satisfies w(o)(Q)>-0.8, or exhibits a rapid, late-time, transition at redshifts z<3. Because of the degeneracy with other cosmological parameters, models with a slowly varying w(z) cannot be differentiated from each other or from a cosmological constant. This may place a fundamental limit on our understanding of the origin of the currently observed acceleration.
,   The B----Z conformational transition of double-stranded poly(dG-dC) induced by various nickel salts (chloride, sulfate, subsulfide, carbonate) has been studied by ultraviolet absorption and circular dichroism. The spectra of the nickel compounds, both free and complexed with DNA, have been obtained in the visible and near infrared regions. In all cases the nickel adopts the hexacoordinated ionic form [Ni(H2O6]2+ and induces the B----Z transition of the nucleic acid at submillimolar concentrations (typically 0.4 mM). The addition to the poly(dG-dC)-poly(dG-dC) of an antitumoral drug, pentaziridinocyclodiphosphathiazene (SOAz), inhibits the B----Z transition even at a ten-fold higher nickel concentration (4 mM). Possible implications for carcinogenesis are discussed.
,   Zymomonas mobilis is an alphaproteobacterium studied for bioethanol production. Different strains of this organism have been hitherto sequenced; they all belong to the Z. mobilis subsp. mobilis taxon. Here we report the finished and annotated genome sequence of strain ATCC 29192, a cider-spoiling agent isolated in the United Kingdom. ATCC 29192 is the lectotype of the second-best-characterized subspecies of Z. mobilis, Z. mobilis subsp. pomaceae. The nucleotide sequence of ATCC 29192 deviates from that of Z. mobilis subsp. mobilis representatives, which justifies its distinct taxonomic positioning and proves particularly useful for comparative and functional genomic analyses.
,   The Obukhov length L is an important meteorological parameter that quantifies the stability of the atmospheric surface layer. Consequently, routine monitoring of L with simple instruments is desirable. I describe here such a monitoring scheme, the SFS method, that has the added advantage of yielding a spatially averaged estimate of L. The SFS method-stability from scintillation-is based on measurements of the refractive-index structure parameter C(2)(n) with two matched scintillometers positioned at heights z(1) and z(2). A sensitivity analysis shows that the method can yield an estimate of the stability parameter xi = (z(1)z(2))((1/2))/L with factor of 2 accuracy in the ranges of -3 </= zeta </= -0.015 and 0.02 </=zeta </= 10, the stabilities most commonly encountered in the surface layer.
,   High-convergence, hohlraum-driven implosions of double-shell capsules using mid-Z (SiO2) inner shells have been performed on the OMEGA laser facility [T. R. Boehly, Opt. Commun. 133, 495 (1997)]. These experiments provide an essential extension of the results of previous low-Z (CH) double-shell implosions [P. A. Amendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 065004 (2005)] to materials of higher density and atomic number. Analytic modeling, supported by highly resolved 2D numerical simulations, is used to account for the yield degradation due to interfacial atomic mixing. This extended experimental database from OMEGA enables a validation of the mix model, and provides a means for quantitatively assessing the prospects for high-Z double-shell implosions on the National Ignition Facility [Paisner, Laser Focus World 30, 75 (1994)].
,   The title compound, [PtCl(C(3)H(7)NO)(2)(C(18)H(15)P)]Cl·H(2)O or trans-[PtCl{Z-HN=C(Me)OMe}(2)(PPh(3))]Cl·H(2)O, crystallizes from an acetone solution of isomeric trans-[PtCl{E-HN=C(Me)OMe}(2)(PPh(3))]Cl. The two HN=C(Me)OMe ligands show typical π-bond delocalization over the N-C-O group [Cini, Caputo, Intini & Natile (1995). Inorg. Chem. 34, 1130-1137] and have the unprecedented Z-anti configuration. The relative orientation of the imino ether ligands is head-to-tail.
,   Mass spectra of 4 fluorescent HPLC fractions originating from the molybdenum cofactor in xanthine oxidase extracts have been obtained with the method of field desorption (FD). The most polar fraction contains compounds which show peaks in the M/Z = 110-230 and M/Z = 580-750 range. Two other fractions exhibit in the FD spectra peaks at M/Z = 1,113 and M/Z = 886, respectively. Both corresponding compounds contain at most 24 C atoms and lack S, Mo, Cl and Br, as judged from the isotopic pattern. The most apolar fluorescent compound, which could be isolated only from xanthine oxidase extracts prepared in the absence of phosphate, has been identified as a species with a molecular weight around 482.
,   Two modified polynucleotides having the Z-DNA conformation (poly [dG-dC] dien Pt and poly [dG-br5dC] . poly [dG-br5dC]) have been used for determination of antibodies to Z-DNA. Such antibodies were found in sera of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and with Crohn's disease. They were scarcely observed in polyradiculoneuritis and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In Crohn's disease sera, no antibodies to B-DNA were ever found but presence of two different families of antibodies to Z-DNA was demonstrated.
,   A novel oxazine ring formation method was established using the reaction of 2-acetyl-(E)-3-styrylcarbonylaminobenzo[b]furans (4) with Vilsmeier-Haack-Arnold reagent to afford (E and Z)-((E)-2-styrylbenzo[b]furo[3,2-d][1,3]oxazin-4-ylideno)acetaldehydes (5). (Z)-4-(8-Bromo-(E)-2-styrylbenzo[b]furo[3,2-d][1,3]oxazin-4-ylideno)but-(E)-2-enoic acid ethyl ester (6b), derived from (Z)-5a, showed significantly potent anti-osteoclastic bone resorption activity comparable to 17beta-estradiol (E2).
,   Under certain conditions, repetitive DNA motifs have the potential to adopt non-B-form DNA structures, such as hairpins, triplexes, Z-DNA, quadruplexes, and i-motifs. Some non-B-form DNAs have been proposed to cause mutations and, consequently, participate in several biologically important processes, including regulation, evolution, and human disease. Advancement in the knowledge of specific interactions between molecules and non-B-form DNAs at the molecular level in living cells is important for understanding their biological functions. In this review, we describe the latest studies on molecules that target non-B-form DNAs in vivo, with a focus on Z-DNA, G-quadruplexes, triplexes, i-motifs, and hairpins. 
,   (Z)-3,5,4'-Trimethoxystilbene is a natural polyphenol present in five different plants, Virola cuspidata, Virola elongata, Centipeda minima, Schoenus nigricans and Rheum undulatum. This molecule was prepared in a three-step sequence in good overall yield. The isomerisation from the (E)- to (Z)-isomer is performed using UV irradiation. Biological investigations were conducted on a human colon cancer cell line (Caco-2) with anti-mitotic activities. Growth was completely arrested at an added 0.4 microM level of (Z)-3,5,4'-trimethoxystilbene. This agent is 100-fold more active than resveratrol or (E)-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene, and the mechanism of this process involves an inhibition of tubulin polymerisation in a dose dependent manner.
,   A new juglomycin-type antibiotic was identified by a HPLC-diode array screening technique in the culture filtrate of Streptomyces tendae Tü 901/8c. Juglomycin Z (1) differs from all other known juglomycin compounds by an additional methyl group in position 3 of the naphthoquinone ring system. Juglomycin Z is antibiotically active against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and against yeasts.
,   Confluent with the single dimension of time, breach of time-reversal symmetry is usually perceived as a one-dimensional concept. In its ultimate realization-the one-way guiding device-it allows optical propagation in one direction, say +z, and forbids it in the opposite direction -z. Hence, in studies of time-reversal asymmetry the mapping t↦-t is naturally associated with z↦-z. However, strongly nonreciprocal or one-way nanoscale threads can be used to weave metasurfaces thus adding dimensions to this concept. In this new family of surfaces the aforementioned association cannot be made. An example of appropriate threads is the planar one-way particle chains based on the two-type rotation principle. The resulting surfaces-the metaweaves-possess generalized nonreciprocity such as "sector-way" propagation, and offer new possibilities for controlling light in thin surfaces. We study several metaweave designs and their asymmetries in the wave-vector space. 
,   Caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK potentiated heat shock-induced apoptosis in macrophages. Z-VAD-FMK did not activate HSP70 synthesis, but significantly increased the intensity of this process during heat shock. It cannot be excluded that caspases abolish HSP70 accumulation under these conditions. The HSP70 synthesis inhibitor quercetin potentiated DNA fragmentation in macrophages cocultured with Z-VAD-FMK after heat shock. HSP70 play an important role in the protection of macrophages from caspase-independent apoptosis.
,   The convergence behavior of connected triples correlation energy in CCSD(T) and CC3 calculations with (aug-)cc-pVXZ basis sets has been accurately described in terms of a power law of the type E(X)=E(infinity)+AX(-4). Calculations ranging from double-Z through septuple-Z attest the validity of this X(-4) convergence model. Extrapolations generated from (X-1,X)-Z calculations yield energies of nearly (X+1)-Z quality. Typically, the fraction of triples correlation energy recovered is 0.92+/-0.05 in (D,T) extrapolations; 0.98+/-0.01 in (T,Q) extrapolations; 1.0002+/-0.0012 in (Q,5) extrapolations; and 0.9995+/-0.0005 in (5,6) extrapolations.
,   Nine patients with recurrent metatarsophalangeal joint extension contracture after clawtoe or hammertoe procedures were treated with Z-plasty skin closures as part of the revision surgical procedure. The indication for performing the Z-plasty was the presence of scar contracture in the skin that prevented satisfactory correction of the toe. Soft tissue release of the metatarsophalangeal joint was followed by a simple dorsal skin Z-plasty transposition. Patients were evaluated 1 1/2 to 6 years after revision surgery. No recurrence of the extension contracture had occurred.
,   The effect of aortocoronary saphenous bypass graft surgery on survival of functional class I and II patients was studied in 619 patients entered in the Seattle Heart Watch when they had coronary arteriography. Cox's regression analysis was used to correct for differences in baseline characteristics that occur as a result of nonrandom assignment to medical or surgical therapy. For the 619 patients, surgical therapy was predictive of improved survival, with bordeline statistical significance (Z = -1.820; p = 0.069). With subgroup analysis, patients with three-vessel disease had a significantly improved survival rate (Z = -2.378; p = 0.017), but patients with one-vessel disease (Z = 0.307; p = 0.758) or two-vessel disease (Z = -0.98; p = 0.324) did not.
,   We show, both theoretically and experimentally, that the propagation of optical vortices in free space can be analyzed by using the width [w(z)] of the host Gaussian beam and the inner and outer radii of the vortex beam at the source plane (z=0) as defined in [Opt. Lett.39, 4364 (2014)10.1364/OL.39.004364OPLEDP0146-9592]. We also studied the divergence of vortex beams, considered as the rate of change of inner or outer radius with the propagation distance (z), and found that it varies with the order in the same way as that of the inner and outer radii at z=0. These results may be useful in designing optical fibers for orbital angular momentum modes that play a crucial role in quantum communication. 
,   Z-line protein have important structural functions. Recent publications point to additional, previously unexpected functions and new views are now emerging. Z-line proteins are involved in important intra- and intercellular signalling pathways. They translocate into the nucleus, they interact with a variety of signalling molecules including kinases and transcription factors, and they have the ability to form macromolecular protein complexes indicating furthermore their multifuntionality. The muscle LIM protein (MLP) is muscle specific, and is expressed and located at the z-line. MLP's physiological role at the z-line and in the nucleus may be better understood by precise investigations of specific mutations in specific domains of this protein.
,   PELDOR (Pulsed Electron eLectron DOuble Resonance) was applied to determinethe distance of between Y(Z)and Q(A) (-)inY(D)-less mutant of Chlamydomonas reinhardtiiin Tris-treatedand Zn-substituted preparation of photosystem II. The value of distance wasfound to be 34.5 ± 1 Â. A '2+1' electron spin echo method has beenapplied to measure the orientation of the radius-vector RfomY(D)to Chl(Z)in a membrane-oriented photosystem II. The anglebetween Rand the membrane normal nwas determined to be 50 ±5(°), using the distance 29.4 ± 0.5 Â determined in non-orientedPS II.
,   Two libraries of hMC4R agonists, X-Y-DPhe(7)-Arg(8)-2-Nal(9)-Z-NH(2) and X-Y-DPhe(7)-Arg(8)-Trp(9)-Z-NH(2), totaling 185 peptides were prepared using Irori radiofrequency tagging technology and Argonaut Quest 210 Synthesizer, where X stands for N-caps, Y for His(6) surrogates and Z for Gly(10) surrogates. As a result of this study, His-modified pentapeptides with Trp were found to be more hMC4R potent than the corresponding 2-Nal analogs, novel N-caps and Gly surrogates were identified and 19 new peptides which are potent hMC4R agonists (EC(50) 1-15nM) and selective against hMC1R were discovered.
,   Structural features of the Z-lattice were examined in cross-sections of rat soleus muscle. Optical diffraction analysis of individual myofilament bundles revealed highly ordered, tightly packed tetragonal lattice regions with abrupt shifts in orientation. Optical reconstructions of cross-sections of the Z-lattice in regions having the same axial filament spacing showed both the basket weave and the small square lattice forms, as well as intermediate structures. Analysis of these regions in three dimensions and in two-dimensional projections suggests that a change in diameter together with a change in curvature of the cross-connecting filaments can explain the different appearances of the Z-lattice at a given sarcomere length.
,   Semisynthesis studies starting from (11Z)-1',2'-didehydrostemofoline (4) indicated that the known Stemona alkaloid stemoburkilline is the Z-isomer and not the E-isomer as initially reported. The semisynthesis involved conversion of (11Z)-1',2'-didehydrostemofoline (4) to 11(S),12(S)-dihydrostemofoline (3) followed by a stereoselective base-catalyzed ring-opening reaction to give (Z)-stemoburkilline (8). The same product was obtained using a similar synthetic protocol starting from isostemofoline (6) via a based-catalyzed ring-opening reaction of 11(S),12(R)-dihydrostemofoline (1). A re-examination of the crude root extracts of Stemona burkillii Prain and further NOE studies established stemoburkilline as the Z-isomer (8).
,   Longianone and the biosynthetically related mycotoxins isopatulin and (Z)-ascladiol were prepared following a divergent route from a readily available furan diol. The route toward longianone features an unprecedented TBAF-promoted intramolecular oxa-Michael reaction to a conjugated keto enoate, and the oxidation of dihydrolongianone to longianone with stabilized IBX. The route to isopatulin features a chemoenzymatic synthesis of (Z)-ascladiol, and the regioselective oxidation of (Z)-ascladiol to isopatulin with MnO(2).
,   Numerical calculation is performed to validate the principles of a single optical technique devoted to real time probing or imaging of submultilayers within interferential coatings.
,   The effect of Z-conformation of DNA on its template activity in DNA synthesis reactions in vitro has been studied. Normal poly(dG-dC) in the B-form, brominated and unbrominated in the Z-form have been compared for their template activity in DNA synthesis reactions mediated by AMV DNA polymerase and E. coli DNA polymerase I. The results indicate that poly(dG-dC) in the Z-form is totally inactive as a template for DNA synthesis and further that it is a strong competitive inhibitor of copying of the B-form DNA.
,   A novel mode of reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography in which the mobile phase reacts chemically with the compounds to be separated was developed. Nikkomycin X and nikkomycin Z, two natural isomeric nucleoside peptide antibiotics, move as a single peak on a C18 reversed-phase column using an aqueous trifluoroacetic acid mobile phase. Addition of sodium bisulfite (1.0%) to the mobile phase results in the formation of a polar bisulfite addition product with nikkomycin X, but not with nikkomycin Z, inside the HPLC column. This type of reactive chromatography, or chemochromatography, led to the analytical and preparative separation of nikkomycins X and Z which are normally very intractable to separation by conventional chromatographic techniques.
,   To explore a new procedure for aesthetic correction of the medial epicanthal fold aim at the etiopathogenesis. new Z-epicanthoplasty devise the upper and inferior margin of angle of eye medial as one angle of the Z.m 2004 to 2006, 129 patients were treated by using the method. Follow-up 6 to 24 months, all patients were satisfied by eliminating the medial epicanthal fold without obvious scar. method is more effect than traditionally Z-plasty. Our technique is a simple, advanced procedure that can be performed widely.
,   The simian virus 40 (SV40) enhancer contains three 8-bp purine-pyrimidine (R:Y) alternating sequences (Z-motifs) which are known to adopt the left-handed Z-DNA conformation in vitro. Mutations at these three Z-motifs seriously impair enhancer function. Reversion of one of these mutants (dpm12) is studied in this paper. The results indicate that, depending on growth conditions, recovery of the enhancer function is achieved through different mechanisms. Mutant viruses growing in solid-agar medium do not revert. On the other hand, revertants obtained in liquid medium contain a duplication of the enhancer sequences, showing no recovery of the original Z-motifs.
,   The transmission of the Z deficient allele of alpha 1-antitrypsin was studied in 23 families, each with a single parent heterozygous for this allele. When the mother carried the Z allele, the distribution of phenotypes in the children did not differ significantly from the expected frequency. In contrast, when the father was the carrier, a significant increase of heterozygous phenotypes was observed in the children. This observation suggests that a selective advantage is associated with the expression of the Z allele in male gametes.
,   Connectin/titin, a 3000 kDa protein, links the Z line to the myosin filament in striated muscle sarcomeres. Using the yeast two-hybrid system, the present work shows that the N-terminal Z repeat 5 region (amino acids 447-472) of connectin binds to the C-terminal region (amino acids 825-897) of alpha-actinin, the main constituent of the Z line.
,   Extending the well-known Thomas-Fermi Z-scaling laws to the Coulomb coupling parameter, we investigate the stabilization of the ionic coupling in isochoric heating [Clérouin et al., Phys. Rev. E 87, 061101 (2013)]. This stabilization is restricted to a domain in atomic number Z, temperature, and density, including strong limitations on high couplings, that can only be obtained for high-Z elements. Contact is made with recent isochoric heating experiments. The consequences for corresponding states with respect to ionic coupling are also quantified via orbital free molecular dynamics simulations. This opens avenues for future isochoric heating experiments.
,   An auxiliary rf waveform of the same amplitude and phase applied to all the rods of an ion accumulation multipole creates an m/z-dependent axial pseudo potential. Controlled decrease of the auxiliary rf amplitude releases ions from the accumulation multipole sequentially from high to low m/z. The slope of the auxiliary rf voltage ramp is adjusted so that ions of different m/z reach the center of the ICR cell at the same time point, which mitigates the typical time dispersion observed in external source FT-ICR and extends the observable mass range for a single data acquisition by 2- to 3-fold. For complex mixture analysis, twice the number of elemental compositions are assigned when the auxiliary rf ejection is applied compared with the standard gated trapping. 
,   With the purpose of developing a method of preparing Z-alpha,beta-unsaturated amides, the Peterson reaction of the (triphenylsilyl)acetamide Ph(3)SiCH(2)COX (1, X = NBn(2); 3, X = NMe(2)) with various aldehydes was examined. The reaction of aromatic aldehydes gave selectivities up to >97:3. It was found that the selectivity was a function of the electronic nature of the aromatic ring and higher Z selectivity was attained with electron-rich aldehydes. With aliphatic aldehydes selectivities up to 92:8 were achieved, and unlike with analogous phosphorus reagents, less sterically hindered aldehydes gave higher Z selectivity. Also, 3, which has a smaller amide group than 1, tended to give rise to higher selectivity. A comparison with the reaction of trimethylsilyl analogues revealed the significance of the phenyl substituents on the silyl group.
,   The synthesis and antimicrobial activity of eight derivatives of 7-[(Z)-2-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)- and 7-[(Z)-2-(5-amino-1,2,4-thiadiazol-3-yl)-2-methoxyiminoacetamido] cephalosporins having an (E) or (Z)-3-ammonio-1-propenyl group in the C-3 side chain are described. The (E)-propenyl derivatives were more active than their corresponding Z-isomers and showed well-balanced, broad antibacterial activity against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
,   cis(Z)-Clopenthixol and trans(E)-clopenthixol were determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-performance liquid chromatography-diode-array detection in necropic samples from a postmortem case. The peripheral blood concentrations of cis(Z)-clopenthixol and trans(E)-clopenthixol were 278 and 177 ng/mL, respectively. The level of the active cis(Z)-isomer is within the toxic range. Other associated drugs' concentrations were within their therapeutic ranges. Postmortem redistribution of the drug and instability of the drug due to trans-isomerization were discussed.
,   We compared DXA whole body and lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) using manufacturers software with a body size correction which derived bone mineral content (BMC) for bone area in survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in Saudi Arabia (n = 51, mean age 13.5 y). With no corrections, 29 patients (57%) had lumbar spine BMD Z score < -1.0 and 21 (41%) had whole body BMD Z score < -2. After correction, only 6 (12%) had lumbar spine BMC Z score < -1.0 and 4 (8%) had whole body BMC Z score < -2. Agreement between the methods was "poor" by weighted κ analysis.
,   Reversed-phase HPLC fractionation, monitored by brine shrimp bioassay, led to the isolation of a new illudane-type sesquiterpene glucoside, ptaquiloside Z (2), as well as the known bracken carcinogen ptaquiloside (1), from a bioactive aqueous extract of the neotropical bracken fern Pteridium aquilinum var. caudatum (Pteridaceae). The structure of ptaquiloside Z (2) was confirmed by spectroscopic analyses and chemical degradation. Both compounds exhibited similar toxicity (LC50 62.5 micrograms/ml at 24 h and LC50 7.8 micrograms/ml at 48 h) toward brine shrimp.
,   New prenylated flavones, artoindonesianins Z-4 and Z-5, together with four known prenylated flavones, artonin E, 12-hydroxyartonin E, artobiloxanthone, and cycloartobiloxanthone, have been isolated from the methanol extract of the tree bark of Artocarpus lanceifolius. The structures of these compounds were determined on the basis of spectroscopic data, including UV, IR, 1D and 2D NMR, and mass spectra. The cytotoxic effect of the isolated compounds against murine leukemia P-388 cells is described.
,   Contrary to all previous reports, bromoboration of propyne with BBr(3) proceeds in >or=98% syn-selectivity to produce (Z)-2-bromo-1-propenyldibromoborane (1). Although 1 is readily prone to stereoisomerization, it can be converted to the pinacolboronate (2) of >or=98% isomeric purity by treatment with pinacol, which may then be subjected to Negishi coupling to give trisubstituted (Z)-alkenylpinacolboronates (3) containing various R groups in 73-90% yields. Iodinolysis of 3 affords alkenyl iodides (4) in 80-90% yields. All alkenes isolated and identified are >or=98% Z.
,   We synthesized C8-vinylpyrene-substituted 2'-deoxyguanosine (VPy)G and studied the photoinduced reversible E-Z isomerization. When E-isomer was irradiated with visible light (>420 nm), E- to Z-isomerization took place very rapidly, while upon irradiation with UV-light ( approximately 365 nm), Z-isomer was converted to E-isomer. When Z-isomer was illuminated with 365- 400 nm light, no fluorescence was observed, while E-isomer showed a very strong fluorescence emission, indicating that (VPy)G could be a useful fluorescence switching molecule.
,   We try to understand the presence of a quasistatic magnetic field on the basis of the stability of the laser-plasma system. A general theoretical model of laser self-focusing in the absence of a quasistatic magnetic field (QMF) is extended to discuss self-focusing in the presence of a QMF. Various transverse intensity profiles under different axial collective electronic speeds V(z) are calculated. Numerical results indicate that for suitable laser power and plasma density, the increment in V(z) can lead to a further separation between the photon fluid and the electron fluid and hence a decrement in the energy of the laser-plasma system. This causes it to be possible for the system state without a QMF, or V(z) =0 state, to be not stable relative to some V(z) not equal 0 states.
,   A reported anomaly in the experimental scaling of the widths of Stark broadened n=3, Delta n=0 spectral lines along the carbon isoelectronic sequence is not observed in the present experiments. The ratio omega(N)/omega(O) of widths for N II lines compared to those for the narrower O III lines for the same transitions is now measured as lying between two theoretical predictions, both of which show a value omega(z-1)/omega(z) greater than unity continuing throughout the sequence. In the earlier measurements, the widths (in frequency units) were actually measured as being smaller for N II than for O III, i.e., a ratio omega(z-1)/omega(z) less than unity.
,   We undertook linkage analysis in four large North Carolina kindreds with X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (HYP) using a newly defined polymorphic probe, derived from the 5' untranslated portion of the human glycine receptor (GLR). Two-point linkage analysis established linkage between GLR and HYP [Z(theta) = 7.91 at theta = 0.07] and confirmed linkage between HYP and DXS41 [Z(theta) = 8.31 at theta = 0.06] and DXS43 [Z(theta) = 5.94 at theta = 0.05]. Additionally, we found GLR tightly linked to DXS43 [Z(theta) = 5.40 at theta = 0.0]. Multipoint analysis indicated that GLR is on the telomeric side of HYP with a map order of Xpcen-DXS41-HYP-(GLR/DSX43).
,   We have analysed by various approaches the structure of cloned synthetic sequences in supercoiled plasmids. Individual inserts were formed by d(C-G)n blocks interrupted by the presence of A.T pairs positioned either in phase or out of phase of pur-pyr alternation. Based on the thermodynamic analysis we obtained results confirming that A.T pairs are easily incorporated into left-handed helices without significant energetic penalty. Sequences GTAC which are known to form cruciform structures in multiple repetition underwent a B-Z transition. In the case of plasmids containing AA/TT code words and substantial discontinuities in purine-pyrimidine alternation our analysis indicates that Z-Z junctions formed by A.T pairs contributed little to the overall energetic demands of the B-Z transition probably thanks to their high conformational flexibility.
,   We have studied the inheritance of several polymorphic Xq27/28 DNA marker loci in two three generation families with the X linked neonatal lethal form of centronuclear/myotubular myopathy (XL MTM). We found complete linkage of XLMTM to all four informative Xq28 markers analysed, with GCP/RCP (Z = 3.876, theta = 0.00), with DXS15 (Z = 3.737, theta = 0.00), with DXS52 (Z = 2.709, theta = 0.00), and with F8C (Z = 1.020, theta = 0.00). In the absence of any observable recombination, we are unable to sublocalise the XLMTM locus further within the Xq28 region. This evidence for an Xq28 localisation may allow us to carry out useful genetic counselling within such families.
,   Properly employed, Z-plasty is a valuable way of avoiding complications of tension and contracture that may result in hypertrophic scars, and for repairing such scars if they occur. Careful preoperative planning to place the limbs of the Z in the lines of least tension and to make limbs of equal length at 60 degree angles to the central limb are essential to success. Cautious handling of the flaps and attention to hemostasis helps to ensure that success. Occasionally, Z-plasty has to be resorted to unplanned when it is found that an excision will result in tension exceeding expectations if primary closure were to be done.
,   Nine myriocin analogs, 2-epi-myriocin, 14-deoxomyriocin, Z-14-deoxomyriocin, and nor-deoxomyriocins, were synthesized from 2-deoxy-D-glucose via common intermediates used in previous myriocin and Z-myriocin syntheses. Immunosuppressive activities of those myriocin analogs on mouse allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction were examined, and Z-14-deoxomyriocin was found to show the most potent activity among them. The structure-activity relationships are discussed.
,   Nicotine and its metabolite, cotinine, were measured in rat plasma and brain by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Both agents were extracted from plasma and brain, separated on a capillary column, and quantified by single-ion monitoring. The major fragment ions of nicotine and cotinine at m/z 84 and m/z 98, respectively, were monitored by electron-impact ionization detection and the protonated molecular ions at m/z 163 and m/z 177, respectively, were monitored by chemical ionization detection. Both compounds were quantified using deuterium-labeled nicotine and cotinine, respectively, as internal standards.
,   [reaction: see text]. A highly flexible and stereoselective protocol for the synthesis of branched (E)- and (Z)-trisubstituted alkenes has been developed. The key steps are hydrozirconation-iodination of (1-alkynyl)trimethylsilane followed by Negishi-type cross-coupling. The resultant (Z)-vinyl silane is iododesilylated and subjected to a second cross-coupling reaction to give the trisubstituted olefin. Model studies aimed at the construction of the C14-C15 (Z)-trisubstituted olefin of discodermolide and the C8-C9 (Z)-trisubstituted olefin of callystatin A and analogues are also described.
,   [reaction: see text]. Ultraviolet irradiation of a series of polyunsaturated allylic benzoates results in highly selective E/Z interconversion of the allylic double bond.
,   Interactions between six compounds (econazole, miconazole, amphotericin B, nystatin, nikkomycin Z, and ibuprofen) were investigated for their antifungal activities against Candida albicans by using pair combinations in an in vitro decimal assay for additivity based on disk diffusion. Additive interactions were observed between miconazole and econazole, amphotericin B and nystatin, and amphotericin B and ibuprofen, while an antagonistic interaction was observed between econazole and amphotericin B. Synergistic interactions were recorded for the combinations of econazole and ibuprofen, econazole and nikkomycin Z, and ibuprofen and nikkomycin Z.
,   The results of studies of fast-proton generation from foil targets irradiated by 1-ps laser pulse at 10(17) W/cm (2) are presented. It is shown that a considerable increase in proton energy and current is possible when a double-layer foil target containing a high- Z layer and a low- Z hydrogen-rich layer is used instead of a single-layer target. Proton energies and current increase with the Z of the high- Z layer and depend essentially on the target and the layer thicknesses. Above 10(9) forward-emitted protons of energy >100 keV have been recorded within a cone angle <3 degrees.
,   Defects after excision of large pilonidal sinuses were reconstructed by either rotation skin flaps or a Z-plasty technique. Altogether, 16 patients were operated on, 10 with a rotation flap and 6 with a Z-plasty technique. All the patients except one underwent a radical operation. The patient not having a radical operation had a recurrence. Two cases in the Z-plasty groups acquired an infection in the distal part of the wound necessitating reoperation on the resultant sinus. The disability after this more extensive surgery was not more pronounced than after ordinary surgical procedures. For large recurrent pilonidal sinuses, radical excision and primary suturing of the wound using a rotation flap is recommended as the method of choice.
,   Recurrent cicatricial entropion of the upper eyelid creates a surgical problem. We present a 53-year-old patient with complicated postsurgical fibrotic and scarred upper eyelid entropion. Double-opposed Z-plasty incisions were used at the anterior approach. The outer Z incision included the skin and the orbicularis oculi muscle underneath, whereas the inner Z incisions included the tarsal plate and conjunctiva, in a mirror-image fashion. Two goals were achieved, i.e., release of the vertical traction vector of the conjunctiva and balance of forces between the anterior and posterior layers of the lid. Symptomatic and clinical improvement was observed, and there was no recurrence 2 years after surgery.
,   We consider lattice self-avoiding walks and discuss the dynamic critical behavior of two dynamics that use local and bilocal moves and generalize the usual reptation dynamics. We determine the integrated and exponential autocorrelation times for several observables, perform a dynamic finite-size scaling study of the autocorrelation functions, and compute the associated dynamic critical exponents z. For the variables that describe the size of the walks, in the absence of interactions we find z approximately 2.2 in two dimensions and z approximately 2.1 in three dimensions. At the theta point in two dimensions we have z approximately 2.3.
,   To improve the production of 10-hydroxy-12,15(Z,Z)-octadecadienoic acid (HODA) from α-linolenic acid in Stenotrophomonas nitritireducens.ls of the bacterium were permeabilized with 1.25% (v/v) methanol. The optimal conditions for HODA production by permeabilized cells were pH 7, 35 °C, 5% (v/v) DMSO, 50 g cells l(-1), and 22.5 g α-linolenic acid l(-1). Under these conditions, permeabilized cells produced 16.4 g HODA l(-1) after 2 h, with a conversion yield of 73 % (w/w) and a volumetric productivity of 8.2 g l(-1) h(-1). These values were 153 and 230 % of the values for non-permeabilized cellss is the highest concentration and volumetric and specific productivities of HODA reported thus far.
,   The ability of adriamycin to inhibit Z-DNA formation induced by a high-salt environment was investigated. ADM inhibited this conversion, such that in poly (dG-dC) total inhibition was observed at 1 ADM: 9 base pairs and in eukaryotic DNA (calf thymus) at 1 ADM: 11,5 base pairs. Even at low ADM concentration, 1 ADM: 160 base pairs, some inhibition was observed. At similar ADM:DNA concentrations, an inhibition in DNA synthesis in cells in culture was observed, which showed some parallel with the inhibition of Z-DNA formation. A model is proposed where Z-DNA formation precedes DNA synthesis and where inhibition of the former could explain the antineoplastic nature of adriamycin.
,   When feature selection in mass spectrometry is based on single m/z values, problems arise from the fact that variability is not only in vertical but also in horizontal direction, i.e. also slightly differing m/z values may correspond to the same feature. Hence, we propose to use the full spectra as input to a classifier, but to select small groups -- or blocks -- of adjacent m/z values, instead of single m/z values only. For that purpose we modify the LogitBoost to obtain a version of the so-called blockwise boosting procedure for classification. It is shown that blockwise boosting has high potential in predictive proteomics.
,   The theory of acquired origin of pilonidal sinus disease has been emphasized. Advantages of Z-plasty over the other surgical methods for treatment of this disease have been elaborated. The extremely low recurrence rate following Z-plasty for pilonidal sinus results from the fact that the operation was planned with the true physiopathology of the disease in mind. It is the deep intergluteal fold which predisposes to pilonidal sinuses, and this architecture is materially altered with the Z-plasty. In a series of 120 patients, there were only two recurrences and only five hematomas and wound abscesses. There were no necrosis of flaps and no wound disruptions. This represents an improvement over the results of other modalities of treatment of this disease.
,   Spin-orbit (SO) splitting, +/-omega(SO), of the electron Fermi surface in two-dimensional systems manifests itself in the interaction-induced corrections to the tunneling density of states, nu(epsilon). Namely, in the case of a smooth disorder, it gives rise to the satellites of a zero-bias anomaly at energies epsilon = +/-2 omega(SO). Zeeman splitting, +/-omega(Z), in a weak parallel magnetic field causes a narrow plateau of a width delta epsilon = 2 omega(Z) at the top of each sharp satellite peak. As omega(Z) exceeds omega(SO), the SO satellites cross over to the conventional narrow maxima at epsilon = +/-2 omega(Z) with SO-induced plateaus delta epsilon = 2 omega(SO) at the tops.
,   (Z,E)-9,11-tetradecadienal (Z9,E11-14: Ald; 11%), (Z,E)-9,11,13-tetradecatrienal (Z9,E11, 13-14: Ald; 67%), (Z,E)-9,11-tetradecadienyl acetate (Z9,E11-14: Ac, 5.5%), and (Z,E)-9,11,13-tetradecatrienyl acetate (Z9,E11,13-14: Ac; 16.5%) were identified in the extracts of female pheromone glands ofStenoma cecropia (Lepidoptera: Elachistidae). From electroantennograms and single sensillum recordings, receptors toZ9,E11,13-14:Ald andZ9,E11-14: Ald were found on male antenna. Behavioral data were obtained from olfactometric tests in the laboratory and field trapping experiments in Colombia. It appeared that a blend ofZ9,E11,13-14:Ald (83%) andZ9,E11-14:Ald (17%) was attractive to males. These aldehydes are assumed to be components of the sex pheromone ofS. cecropia, whereas the acetates found in gland extracts might be precursors of the pheromone. 
,   Electric field-induced charge recombination in Photosystem II (PS II) was studied in osmotically swollen spinach chloroplasts ('blebs') by measurement of the concomitant chlorophyll luminescence emission (electroluminescence). A pronounced dependence on the redox state of the two-electron gate QB was observed and the earlier failure to detect it is explained. The influence of the QB/QB (-) oscillation on electroluminescence was dependent on the redox state of the oxygen evolving complex; at times around one millisecond after flash illumination a large effect was observed in the states S2 and S3, but not in the state 'S4' (actually Z(+)S3). The presence of the oxidized secondary electron donor, tyrosine Z(+), appeared to prevent expression of the QB/QB (-) effect on electroluminescence, possibly because this effect is primarily due to a shift of the redox equilibrium between Z/Z(+) and the oxygen evolving complex. 
,   Hydrophosphination of 1-alkynylphosphines with diphenylphosphine proceeds in an anti fashion under copper catalysis, providing an easy and efficient access to a variety of (Z)-1,2-diphosphino-1-alkenes and their sulfides. The reaction is highly chemoselective and can be performed even in an aqueous medium. The reaction is reliable enough to realize a gram-scale synthesis of (Z)-1,2-diphosphino-1-alkene. Radical reduction of the diphosphine disulfides with tris(trimethylsilyl)silane yields the parent trivalent diphosphines without suffering from the isomerization of the olefinic geometry. Enantioselective hydrogenation of (Z)-3,3-dimethyl-1,2-bis(diphenylthiophosphinyl)-1-butene followed by desulfidation leads to a new chiral bidentate phosphine ligand.
,   Low-energy structures are found on the potential energy surfaces of the neutral, cationic, and anionic gold clusters Au(5< or = n < or =9)Z (Z=0,+/-1) and on the neutral potential energy surface of Au(9). These structures provide insights on the two to three dimensional (2D-->3D) transition in small neutral and charged gold clusters. It is demonstrated that the size threshold for the 2D-3D coexistence is lower for cationic than neutral gold clusters: the 2D-3D coexistence develops for Au(5) (+) and Au(7) (+) on the cationic potential energy surfaces while only for Au(9) on the neutral. Two metastable long-lived dianions of gold clusters are also reported.
,   The yield curves for photoions from Ce@C(82) are measured by using synchrotron radiation in the photon energy range from 90 to 160 eV. Parent Ce@C(82) (z+) and fragment ions C(60) (z+) and C(70) (z+) are observed in a mass spectrum (z=1 and 2). The yield curves for doubly charged ionic species exhibit broad resonance in the photon energy region of from 120 to 140 eV which is ascribed to the 4d-->4f giant dipole resonance of the encapsulated Ce atom. The total photoabsorption cross section of Ce@C(82) was determined from partial photoionization cross sections for formation of the parent and fragment ions to be 5.3(-1.1) (+1.8) and 19.6(-3.9) (+6.5) Mb at photon energies of 110 and 130 eV, respectively.
,   NMR and circular dichroism studies show that the RNA tetranucleotide rCpGpCpG can form a Z-RNA left-handed double-helix. In 1.0 M NaClO4, circular dichroism measurements indicate that the tetramer is in the A-form. In 6.0 M NaClO4, there is a characteristic change in the circular dichroism, indicating that the tetramer adopts a left-handed Z-form. This conformation is verified by phosphorus and proton NMR studies. The 31P spectrum shows a large downfield shift in one of the resonances upon an increase in salt concentration. Proton nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) experiments indicate that the guanosines are in the syn conformation. These results are consistent with the formation of a Z-form double-helix.
,   To study the chemical constituents of Ligusticum chuanxiong. constituents were separated and purified by column chromatography with silica gel and ODS, and identified by NMR, MS spectral data.ht compounds were isolated and identified as Ligustilide(I), 4,5-dihydro-3-butylphthalide(II), Z, Z'-6,6',7,3 alpha-diligustili-de(III), Z-6,8',7,3'-diligustilide(IV), Z'-3,8-dihydro-6,6'7,3' alpha-diligustilide(V), 4-hydroxy-3-butylphthalide(VI), ferulic acid(VII) and Xiongterpene(VIII).pound VIII is a new compound.
,   In addition to 19-dydroxybaccatin III, 1beta-hydroxy-5 alpha-deacetylbaccatin I, taxayuntin G and 13-O-deacetyltaxumairol Z (4), three new taxane diterpenoids, taxumairols X (1), Y (2), Z (3) have been isolated from extracts of the Formosan Taxus mairei (LEMEE & LEVL.) S. Y. HU. Compounds 1-2 belong to the 11(15-->1)-abeo-taxane system, having a tetrahydrofuran ring at C-2, C-3, C-4 and C-20. The new compound 3 and 4, which was misidentified previously are derivatives of 11(15-->1)-abeo-taxane with an intact oxirane system. The structures of compounds 1-4 were elucidated on the basis of extensive two dimensional (2D)-NMR analysis.
,   From the diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) activity-guided fractionation, a new quinolone alkaloid, 1-methyl-2-tetradecyl-4(1H)-quinolone (1) was isolated from the fruits of Evodia rutaecarpa together with three known quinolone alkaloids, evocarpine (2), 1-methyl-2-[(4 Z,7 Z)-4,7-decadienyl]-4(1H)-quinolone (3) and 1-methyl-2-[(6 Z,9 Z)-6,9-pentadecadienyl]-4(1 H)-quinolone (4). They showed a dose-dependent DGAT inhibition with IC 50 values of 69.5 microM ( 1), 23.8 microM (2), 20.1 microM (3) and 13.5 mu (4).
,   Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder. Our studies for the first time showed evidence for altered DNA conformation in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease affected brain. The Circular dichroism spectra of severely affected AD DNA showed a typical left-handed Z-DNA conformation, whereas normal, young, and aged brain DNA have the usual B-DNA conformation. Moderately affected AD DNA has modified B-DNA conformation (probable B-Z intermediate form). The ELISA, ethidium bromide binding pattern to DNA and melting temperature (Tm) profiles also revealed the conformational transition from B to Z DNA in AD brain DNA. The altered conformation of DNA will have tremendous implications in gene expressions.
,   Nucleosides of imidazolin-2-one (designated by z) were designed and synthesized as pairing partners of 2-amino-6-(2-thienyl)purine (designated by s). Previously, we developed an unnatural base pair between s and pyridine-2-one (designated by y), and polymerases specifically incorporated the substrate of y into DNA and RNA opposite s in templates. Although s was efficiently incorporated opposite y, A was also incorporated opposite y with high efficiency. The replacement of y by z effectively improved the incorporation selectivity of s. The incorporation efficiency of A opposite z decreased, but the efficient incorporation of s opposite z was maintained as compared to that of the s-y pairing.
,   9-Aminoacridine is the parent compound of a family of pharmacologically active model substances that bind to DNA through intercalation between base pairs. In the present study we show that 9-aminoacridine inhibits the B-to-Z isomerization of poly(dA-dT) in conditions that otherwise cause it to occur (5 M NaCl and 123 mM Ni(ClO4)2). Higher concentrations of Ni(ClO4)2 (155 mM) are able to induce the Z-form due to the disruption of the drug-polynucleotide interaction by the metal ion. Additionally, the dye reverses the Z-form in certain conditions. Thus, the data from this study indicate that 9-aminoacridine binds preferentially to the B-form of poly(dA-dT).
,   To identify the main metabolites of aconitine in the urine of rabbits.er oral administration of aconitine (5 mg.kg-1), the urine of male rabbits was collected and extracted by solid phase extraction and analyzed by liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry.nitine and 4 metabolites were found in the rabbit urine. Their protonated molecular ions at m/z 632, m/z 604, m/z 590, m/z 500 and multistage fragment ions with neutral loss of 60 u, 32 u, 28 u and 18 u were monitored. Their relative concentration were M1 > Aconitine > M4 > M2 > M3. metabolites M1-M4 were deduced as 16-O-demethylaconitine, benzoylaconine, 16-O-demethylbenzoylaconine and aconine, respectively.
,   This paper considers how the first subgalactic structures produced the UV radiation that ionized the intergalactic medium before z = 5 and the "feedback" effects of the UV radiation on structure formation. The first "pregalaxies" may eventually be detectable by their direct UV emission, with characteristic spectral features at Lyman alpha; high-z supernovae may also be detectable. Other probes of the intergalactic medium beyond z = 5, and of the epochs of reheating and reionization, are discussed, along with possible links between the diffusion of pregalactic metals and the origin of magnetic fields.
,   The Ramirez ylide undergoes electrophilic substitution with dialkyl acetylenedicarboxylates, yielding a mixture of the Z and E adducts. The crystal structure analyses of the two adducts formed using dimethylacetylene, viz. dimethyl (E)- and (Z)-1-[2-(triphenylphosphoranylidene)cyclopentadien-1-yl]ethylenedicarboxylate, both C(29)H(25)O(4)P, explain an unusual chemical shift observed for the vinyl H atom of the Z adduct, which had previously precluded a definitive assignment of the isomers. In addition, the structures explain why only one of the isomers reacts further with acetylene esters to produce azulenes with a rare substitution pattern.
,   Under negative superhelical stress, long (TG)n containing repeats experience a stepwise multiple B-Z transitions. We have investigated the effect of the plasmid size on this transitional behavior. A 66-bp (TG)n containing repeat from the 5'-untranscribed region of mouse ribosomal DNA was inserted in a 3-kb, a 6.5-kb and a 12.5-kb plasmids and its supercoil-driven B-Z transition was followed by OsO4 probing of topoisomer-populations. Our results show a clear correlation between the size of the topological domain and the extent of the region that converts cooperatively into Z-DNA at the initial transition.
,   We report experimental characterization of a very small rectangular phase shift (<0.3 rad) obtained from the far-field diffraction patterns using a closed aperture Z-scan technique. The numerical simulations as well as the experimental results reveal a peak-valley configuration in the far-field normalized transmittance, allowing us to determine the sign of the dephasing. The conditions necessary to obtain useful Z-scan traces are discussed. We provide simple linear expressions relating the measured signal to the phase shift. A very good agreement between calculated and experimental Z-scan profiles validates our approach. We show that a very well known nonlinear characterization technique can be extended for linear optical parameter estimation (as refractive index or thickness).
,   An isocratic normal phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (NP-HPLC) method has been developed and validated for the quantitation of Z-isomer in lanoconazole. Separation was achieved with a Thermo Hypersil Silica column. The ratio of 2-propanol, n-hexane and triethylamine in the mobile phase were optimized to obtain the best separation. UV detection was performed at 296 nm. The described method is linear over a range of LOQ--15.0 microg/ml of Z-isomer. The mean recovery of Z-isomer was found to be in the range of 97-99%. The method is simple, rapid, selective, accurate and precise, useful in the quality control of bulk manufacturing.
,   Theoretical studies have predicted that the Z-pinch can be stabilized with a sufficiently sheared axial flow [U. Shumlak and C. W. Hartman, Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 3285 (1995)]. A Z-pinch experiment is designed to generate a plasma which contains a large axial flow. Magnetic fluctuations and velocity profiles in the plasma pinch are measured. Experimental results show a stable period which is over 700 times the expected instability growth time in a static Z-pinch. The experimentally measured axial velocity shear is greater than the theoretical threshold during the stable period and approximately zero afterwards when the magnetic mode fluctuations are high.
,   The crystal structure of d(CACACG).d(CGTGTG) was solved to a resolution of 2.05 A in space group P2(1). The duplex assumes the left-handed Z-DNA structure. The presence of two A.T base pairs in the hexamer does not greatly affect the conformation. The most significant changes compared with the regular structure of Z-DNA are in the values of twist in the central portion of the helix. This variation, as well as others in the values of roll, inclination etc., follow the pattern observed previously in the structure of d(CGCACG).d(CGTGCG).
,   The petroleum ether extract of Viola websteri Hemsl. (Violaceae) was investigated for its activity against chloroquine-sensitive strains of Plasmodium falciparum using the parasite lactate dehydrogenase assay method. The main antiplasmodial principles, 6-(8'Z-pentadecenyl)-salicylic acid (1) and 6-(8'Z, 11'Z, 14'Z-heptadecatrienyl)-salicylic acid (2), have been isolated from V. websteri for the first time. This is the first report on the antiplasmodial activity of the compounds from V. websteri.
,   Observations of molecular hydrogen in quasar host galaxies at high redshifts provide fundamental constraints on galaxy evolution, because it is out of this molecular gas that stars form. Molecular hydrogen is traced by emission from the carbon monoxide molecule, CO; cold H2 itself is generally not observable. Carbon monoxide has been detected in about ten quasar host galaxies with redshifts z > 2; the record-holder is at z = 4.69 (refs 1-3). Here we report CO emission from the quasar SDSS J114816.64 + 525150.3 (refs 5, 6) at z = 6.42. At that redshift, the Universe was only 1/16 of its present age, and the era of cosmic reionization was just ending. The presence of about 2 x 1010 M\circ of H2 in an object at this time demonstrates that molecular gas enriched with heavy elements can be generated rapidly in the youngest galaxies.
,   Since the substrate binding domain of the large proteolytic fragment of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I has been shown to interact with the B forms of DNA, we have studied the ability of this enzyme to recognize structures other than the B form. The polymerase activity has been used to evaluate the degree of recognition of the B and Z forms of DNA. The Z form was found to promote less activity, indicating the probable inability of the polymerase to move along the conformationally rigid form of the template. The present study indicates that the Z-DNA found in vivo may have a role in the control of replication.
,   A series of 6-amino-2-phenyl-4H-3,1-benzoxazin-4-one aminoacyl and dipeptidyl derivatives, in which aminoacids and dipeptides are linked to the benzoxazinone moiety via an amide bond, were synthesized and tested in vitro for their inhibitory activity towards human leukocyte elastase (HLE). When compared to their values without inhibitors, the residual enzymatic activities decrease with time, indicating a time-dependent inhibition. The most potent inhibitions were obtained when Z-Arg-(Pmc), Z-Val-Phe, Z-Ala-Val or Z-Val-Ala are linked to the 6-amino group. Twenty-five new compounds were synthesized.
,   The effects of a needle-tip repeller electrode on thermospray mass spectra of poly(ethylene glycols) and peptide samples have been studied. A significant increase in ion current was observed for increased repeller potentials in the low-mass region (m/z 300 to m/z 1100) and the high-mass region (m/z 1100 to m/z 1900). The change in ion current is due to a change in ion extraction efficiency because of increased ion diffusion rates. The amount of peptide sample needed for direct injection studies was decreased 1 to 2 orders of magnitude by using an ion source with both a needle-tip repeller electrode and a restricted vaporizer probe tip.
,   A new and efficient method for the synthesis of N(alpha)-Fmoc-/Boc-/Z-beta-amino acids using the two-step Arndt-Eistert approach is described. Fmoc-/Boc-/Z-alpha-Amino acid fluorides were used for the acylation of diazomethane synthesizing Fmoc-/Boc-/Z-alpha-aminodiazoketones as crystalline solids with good yield and purity. They were then converted to the corresponding beta-amino acids using PhCOOAg/dioxane/H2O.
,   We consider a single localized spin-1/2 between the singlet superconducting leads of a Josephson junction (e.g., a superconducting STM). For the spin subject to a dc magnetic field B parallel z, we study the spin dynamics and the possibility to measure the spin state via transport through the junction embedded in a dissipative circuit. Turning on the tunneling or a voltage bias induces oscillations of the Josephson current, with an amplitude sensitive to the initial value of the z component of the spin, S(z)=+/-1/2. At low temperatures, when effects of quasiparticles are negligible, this procedure realizes a quantum nondemolition measurement of S(z).
,   Using events in which one of two neutral B mesons from the decay of an Upsilon(4S) meson is fully reconstructed, we determine parameters governing decay (DeltaGamma(d)/Gamma(d)), CP, and T violation (|q/p|), and CP and CPT violation (Re z,Im z). The results, obtained from an analysis of 88 x 10(6) Upsilon(4S) decays recorded by BABAR, are sgn(Re lambda(CP))DeltaGamma(d)/Gamma(d)=-0.008+/-0.037(stat)+/-0.018(syst)[-0.084,0.068],|q/p|=1.029+/-0.013(stat)+/-0.011(syst)[1.001,1.057],(Re lambda(CP)/|lambda(CP)|) Re z=0.014+/-0.035(stat)+/-0.034(syst)[-0.072,0.101],Im z=0.038+/-0.029(stat)+/-0.025(syst)[-0.028,0.104]. The values inside the square brackets indicate the 90% confidence-level intervals. These results are consistent with standard model expectations.
,   Rhodium (I)-catalyzed isomerization of N-allylaziridines affords isolable Z-enamines in excellent yields and with high stereoselectivity. Cationic [Rh(BINAP)(COD)]OTf and RhH(CO)(PPh3)3 follow the same selectivity toward the Z-isomers. This selectivity is not observed with other N-allylamines which give the thermodynamically more stable E-isomers. These unexpected results suggest a possible deviation from the commonly accepted mechanism of isomerization. Preliminary results show that the Z-enamines undergo cycloaddition with DMAD to form highly strained N-cyclobutenyl aziridines.
,   High-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectra from samples located in inhomogeneous static and radio frequency magnetic fields can be obtained by applying a train of z-rotation radio frequency pulses to repeatedly refocus the inhomogeneous broadening during signal detection. z-rotation pulses based on an adiabatic double passage are effective over wide bandwidths using a limited amount of radio frequency power at the expense of being time consuming and, consequently, sensitive to motion of the spin bearing molecules. The signal damping resulting from molecular self-diffusion during the pulse was studied experimentally and using Brownian dynamics simulations. The results show that the analytical expression for diffusion damping during a double spin echo is a reasonable approximation for the signal decay during an adiabatic z-rotation pulse. Methods to alleviate the effects of diffusion are discussed.
,   (Z)-5-(1-Decenyl)dihydro-2(3H)-furanone, isolated from virgin female Japanese beetles (Popillia japonica) attracted males of the species infield bioassays. However, the synthesized racemic mixture of this compound did not attract male Japanese beetles. The Z and E isomers and the saturated analog of both enantiomers of this compound were synthesized stereospecifically. Pure synthetic (R,Z)-5-(1-decenyl)dihydro-2(3H)-furanone was competitive with live females and with the pheromone isolated from live females in attracting males. Male response was strongly inhibited by small amounts of the S,Z isomer. Although the E isomer and the saturated analog of the pheromone are present in the material obtained from females, the role of these compounds in mediating the insect's behavior is unclear.
,   Synthesis of the tripeptide Z-Phe-Arg-SerNH2 has been accomplished by a recombinant cysteine protease, cathepsin L1 from liver fluke (Fasciola hepatica), using Z-Phe-Arg-OMe as acyl acceptor and SerNH2 as nucleophile in 0.1 M ammonium acetate pH 9.0-12.5% v/v acetonitrile at 37 degrees C. LC-MS detection indicated tripeptide formation after 10 min, continuing up to 5.5 h. The ester Z-Phe-Arg-OMe was detected throughout the experiment but the hydrolysis product Z-Phe-Arg-OH appeared early and in quite large amounts. We believe that this is the first application of a parasite protease in enzymatic peptide synthesis.
,   Benzodiazepines and the benzodiazepine-like z-hypnotics (zopiclone, zolpidem, and zaleplon) have the same mode of action and many of the same effects. The use of z-hypnotics has had a steady and large increase since their introduction in Norway, and sales data suggest extensive use among the elderly. The relatively short half-lives of these drugs may cause less hangover effects, but z-hypnotics are hardly more effective or safer than benzodiazepines. The two classes of drugs should be prescribed with similar caution.
,   Plasmid pGC20 containing the (dGC)9 insert in SmaI recognition site has been used to study the inhibition of cleavage by different restriction endonuclease due to Z-DNA formation in (dCG)10 sequence of the negatively supercoiled plasmid. Data obtained indicate the different sensitivity of restriction endonucleases to DNA conformational perturbations resulted from the Z-DNA formation. Therefore, the inhibition of DNA cleavage by a particular restriction endonuclease cannot serve as a criterion for the estimation of the length of B-Z junctions in circular supercoiled DNAs.
,   The DNA methyltransferase (Mtase) genes of temperate Bacillus subtilis phages SPR, phi 3T, SP beta and rho 11 can be transferred by transfection and recombination to the genome of the related non-modifying phage Z. Integration of the Mtase genes occurs in phage Z DNA at a unique location which is homologous with the flanking regions of the Mtase genes of the related phages. In lysogenic cells carrying recombinant phages, expression of the Mtase genes is repressed, irrespective of whether the Mtase genes were derived from phage donors which were homo- or heteroimmune to phage Z.
,   It has been suggested that there are special evolutionary forces that act on sex chromosomes. Hemizygosity of the X chromosome in male mammals has led to selection for male-advantage genes, and against genes posing extreme risks of tumor development. A similar bias against cancer genes should also apply to the Z chromosome that is present as a single copy in female birds. Using comparative database analysis, we found that there was no significant underrepresentation of cancer genes on the chicken Z, nor on the Z-orthologous regions of human chromosomes 5 and 9. This result does not support the hypothesis that genes involved in cancer are selected against on the sex chromosomes.
,   Developments of large-scale energy storages with not only low cost and high safety but also abundant metals are significantly demanded. While lithium ion batteries are the most successful method, they cannot satisfy all conditions. Here we show the principle of novel lithium-free secondary oxygen rocking aqueous batteries, in which oxygen shuttles between the cathode and anode composed of iron-based perovskite-related oxides Ca(0.5)La(0.5)FeO(z) (2.5 ≤ z ≤ 2.75 and 2.75 ≤ z ≤ 3.0). Compound Ca(0.5)La(0.5)FeO(z) can undergo two kinds of reduction and reoxidation of Fe(4+)/Fe(3+) and Fe(3+)/Fe(2+), that are accompanied by reversible and repeatable topotactic oxygen extraction and reinsertion during discharge and charge processes.
,   The tendency of molecules containing an Au...Au interaction to crystallize with more than one molecule in the asymmetric unit (i.e., Z ' > 1) and the geometry of the Au...Au interaction in X-Au-Y species have been investigated. Au-containing compounds exhibiting Au...Au interactions are shown to form Z ' > 1 structures in 25.0% of cases, compared with 7.8% for Au-containing species where no Au...Au interactions exist and 8.8% for the Cambridge Structural Database as a whole. This propensity toward high Z ' behavior is investigated by considering the nature of the packing of the compounds as well as the characteristics of the ligands and, in particular, the difference in sizes of the X and Y ligands. The geometry and conformation of molecules linked by an Au...Au interaction is also analyzed, taking into account the steric and electronic characteristics of the ligands.
,   The average avalanche size in the Watts model of threshold dynamics on random networks of arbitrary degree distribution is determined analytically. Existence criteria for global cascades are shown to depend sensitively on the size of the initial seed disturbance. The dependence of cascade size upon the mean degree z of the network is known to exhibit several transitions-these are typically continuous at low z and discontinuous at high z; here it is demonstrated that the low- z transition may in fact be discontinuous in certain parameter regimes. Connections between these results and the zero-temperature random-field Ising model on random graphs are discussed.
,   Gamma-ray transitions have been identified for the first time in the extremely neutron-deficient (N=Z+2) nucleus (110)Xe, and the energies of the three lowest excited states in the ground-state band have been deduced. The results establish a breaking of the normal trend of increasing first excited 2(+) and 4(+) level energies as a function of the decreasing neutron number as the N=50 major shell gap is approached for the neutron-deficient Xe isotopes. This unusual feature is suggested to be an effect of enhanced collectivity, possibly arising from isoscalar n-p interactions becoming increasingly important close to the N=Z line.
,   The alpha,beta-dehydrophenylalanine residues influence the conformation of the title pentapeptide Boc0-Gly1-Delta(Z)Phe2-Gly3-Delta(E)Phe4-L-Phe5-p-NA ethanol solvate, C42H43N7O9.C2H5OH. The first unsaturated phenylalanyl (Delta(Z)Phe2) and the third glycyl (Gly3) residues form a type I beta turn, while the second unsaturated phenylalanyl (Delta(E)Phe4) and the last phenylalanyl (L-Phe5) residues are part of a type II beta turn. All the amino acids in the peptide are linked trans to one another. The crystal structure is stabilized by intra- and intermolecular hydrogen bonds.
,   A combination of the Horner-Emmons synthesis of alkyl 2,4-dienoates with their hydrogenation over complex L.Cr(CO)3 catalysts (L = 3CO or arene) provides a versatile, stereocontrolled and operationally simple approach to the (Z)-disubstituted, (Z)-trisubstituted, (E)-trisubstituted alkenes and skipped (Z,Z)-disubstituted diolefins with a homoallylic type of functionally. This protocol, sometimes supplemented by an enzymatic hydrolysis, was successfully applied to the synthesis of configurationally pure (gp > or = 98%) pheromones of the furniture carpet beetle, dry bean beetle, rusty grain beetle, square-necked grain beetle and a trail-following pheromone mimic for subterranean termites.
,   X-Z inverted pendulum is a new kind of inverted pendulum which can move with the combination of the vertical and horizontal forces. Through a new transformation, the X-Z inverted pendulum is decomposed into three simple models. Based on the simple models, sliding-mode control is applied to stabilization and tracking control of the inverted pendulum. The performance of the sliding mode control is compared with that of the PID control. Simulation results show that the design scheme of sliding-mode control is effective for the stabilization and tracking control of the X-Z inverted pendulum.
,   The values of pre-steady-state and steady-state parameters for the beta-trypsin catalyzed hydrolysis of Z-Arg-ONp and Z-Lys-ONp are superimposable between pH 2.4 and 8. At variance, the kinetic parameters for the beta-kallikrein-B catalyzed hydrolysis of Z-Arg-ONp are more favourable than those observed for Z-Lys-ONp and depend on different pKa values. The different primary specificity and the catalytic behaviour of beta-trypsin and beta-kallikrein-B reflect structural differences at their S1 subsite, especially at level of the 226 residue as well as the 217-220 segment.
,   Properties of cathepsin L from rat liver lysosomes were compared with those of a similar enzyme, cathepsin S from beef spleen. Major characteristics of cathepsin L are the high activity against Z-Phe-Arg-methylcoumarylamide and sensitivity to the fast reacting irreversible inhibitor Z-Phe-Phe-diazomethane. In contrast, cathepsin S hydrolyzes Z-Phe-Arg-methylcoumarylamide only slowly and Z-Phe-Phe-diazomethane cannot be regarded as a potent inhibitor of this enzyme. The differences in the substrate specificity of cathepsin L from rat liver and cathepsin S from beef spleen are discussed in comparison with the substrate specificity of cathepsin B from rat and human liver and beef spleen.
,   A Z-linked recessive mutation in the domestic fowl is reported that results in a keratoglobus of both eyes. It does not appear to have any effect on the vision of affected individuals. The keratoglobus is not noticeable at hatching, but becomes obvious by 5-6 weeks of age. The mutant has been designated pop-eye, gene symbol pop. Initial studies suggest linkage with the late feathering (K) locus, and with the NM 7092 t (Z;1) translocation, which had previously been shown to be closely linked with Z-linked silver (S). There appear to be no other detrimental effects associated with this mutant. Preliminary analysis of T3 and T4 thyroid hormone levels do not indicate any thyroid malfunction.
,   The profile of the self-preserving far wake with zero net momentum depends on the effective turbulent viscosity coefficient. The current model is based on the assumption of uniform viscosity in the wake cross section. It predicts the self-similar shape of the wake where the width W depends on the distance z from the body as W∝z(1/5) for the axisymmetric case (or z(1/4) for the plane case). The observed wake width, however, demonstrates the dependence W∝z(α) (where α≤1/5). We generalize the model of a self-preserving far wake for the case of the turbulent viscosity coefficient depending on the radius. Additional integrals of motion allow a new family of self-similar profiles with α≤1/5.
,   Matrix photolysis of 2-pyrazinyl azides/tetrazolo[1,5-a]pyrazines generates nitrile ylides 15 via pyrazinylnitrenes 13 and triazacycloheptatetraenes 14. The nitrile ylides 15 are characterized by IR spectroscopy in conjunction with harmonic and anharmonic vibrational frequency calculations. The nitrile ylides exist in the matrices in the Z,Z-conformations in which they are born. Substitution on the nitrile carbon of nitrile ylides has a profound effect on their structure. Even different conformers of the same molecule can have differences up to 200 cm(-1) in the IR absorptions of the ylide moieties. Nitrile ylides 15a and 15b (R = H or Cl, R' = H) have allenic structures (15 Allenic). Nitrile ylide 15c (R = R' = CH3) has a distinctly propargylic structure (15 Propargylic) in the experimentally observed Z,Z-conformation. 
,   Infrared spectroscopic studies demonstrate the ability of poly[d(A-C)].poly[d(G-T)] to adopt a Z-type conformation. The Z form of the unmodified polynucleotide is induced by Ni2+ counterions and not by Na+. The B----Z equilibrium is shifted at room temperature, in the presence of 1 Ni2+/nucleotide, by an increase in the concentration of poly[d(A-C)].poly[d(G-T)]. The importance of specific binding of Ni2+ ions on the N7 site of purines in the stabilization of the Z form is also discussed.
,   To evaluate the frequency of false positive globular inclusions, 89 autopsy cases with various malignancies and liver metastases have been examined by immunoperoxidase staining of liver sections and isoelectric focusing of sera. Four subjects with AAT globules in their hepatocytes were found, all of whom had the Pi Z phenotype. Globular inclusions were not found in any subject lacking the Pi Z allele on isoelectric focusing, but in 3 subjects with the Pi Z phenotype no hepatocytic globules were found.
,   The tetranucleoside triphosphate d(m5C-G)2 has been studied in solution by circular dichroism and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance as a function of temperature, in presence of 3 M NaClO4. It is shown that in such high ionic strength d(m5C-G)2 may adopt a Z-like conformation for temperatures lower than 5 degrees C. At these temperatures, another conformation, in slow equilibrium with the Z-like one, is also detected. Increasing the temperature leads to a transition from the Z-like conformation to intermediate forms before melting. It is demonstrated that these intermediates are not the B form.
,   The dehydrophenylalanine4-enkephalin having the E-configuration (delta EPhe; phenyl and C = 0, cis) was prepared by photoisomerization of the Z-isomer with 3100 A light, followed by reversed-phase HPLC separation of the resulting mixture of the Z- and E-isomers. In the radioligand receptor binding assays, the E-isomer of [D-Ala2, delta Phe4, Leu5]enkephalin exhibited an extremely diminished affinity as compared with the Z-isomer, namely 150-260-fold loss of affinity for the delta and mu opiate receptors. The results indicate that the interrelationship of the Tyr1 and Phe4 residues in the enkephalin molecule seems to be of great importance in receptor recognition.
,   Four analogues of Z-CCK-27-32-NH2, Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp-Met-Asp-NH2, a cholecystokinin receptor antagonist have been synthesized by solution methodology. In these analogues, Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Met-Asp-NH2 16, Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-NH2 17, BOC-Tyr(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp-Met-Asp-NH2 24 and Boc-Tyr(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-NH2 25 methionyl residues were replaced by norleucyl residues. Preliminary biological activity on gastrin-induced acid secretion, in rat, are reported. These derivatives proved to antagonize the action of gastrin, with ED 50 of between 0.5 and 3 mg/kg.
,   The photochemical properties of a series of newly synthesized dendrimers, 4-6, having a 2-(2'-hydroxyphenyl)benzoxazole (HBO) core, were studied in benzene. The fluorescence quantum yields (Phi(f)) were determined to be 0.022, 0.030, and 0.038 for 4, 5, and 6, respectively, increasing in higher generation dendrimers. With transient absorption spectroscopy, the quantum yields of the isomerization from the (E)-keto form ((1)K(E)*) to the (Z)-keto form ((1)K(Z)) (Phi(E)(-->)(Z)) and those of intersystem crossing (Phi(isc)) can be estimated. Whereas Phi(E)(-->)(Z) values decreased in higher generation dendrimers, Phi(isc) values were almost the same among 4-6. The quantum yields of nonradiative decay (Phi(nr)) increased in higher generation dendrimers. The dendrimer structure also affected the reverse tautomerization process.
,   We present a theoretical study on the Z-scan characteristics of thin nonlinear optical media with simultaneous two- and three-photon absorption, a situation that exists, for example, in polydiacetylenes. With the introduction of a coupling function between two- and three-photon absorption, we find a quasi-analytic expression for open aperture Z-scan traces. We make a comparison of the analytic solutions with numerical solutions in detail, showing that they are in good agreement. This theoretical result allows us to easily identify and determine simultaneously the two- and three-photon absorption coefficients from the open aperture Z-scan traces.
,   Zygosaccharomyces bailii BCV 08, a yeast isolated from red wine barrels in Brazil, was evaluated as co-starter in fermentations with Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Z. bailii BCV 08 was preliminarily shown to produce high levels of esters, and the production was optimized in bench and bioreactor scales using grape must. White wine vinifications were conducted with mixed cultures containing different proportions of Z. bailii BCV 08 and an enological strain of S. cerevisiae. In all trials that contained Z. bailii BCV 08, the production of ethyl esters was enhanced in comparison to the vinification control. Our results clearly show the potential of Z. bailii BCV 08 as a mixed starter with S. cerevisiae in order to increase the aromatic complexity of wine. 
,   The mitochondrial COI gene was for the first time sequenced in eelpout species of the genus Zoarces from the Taui Bay of the Sea of Okhotsk: notched-fin Z. elongatus Kner, 1868 and the new sympatric form Zoarces sp., differing in a large set of morphological traits. The two species were compared with European eelpout Z. viviparus Linnaeus, 1758 from the Finnish Bay of the Baltic Sea. Divergence and phylogenetic analyses demonstrated a greater genetic similarity between Zoarces sp. and Z. viviparus than between sympatric Zoarces sp. and Z. elongatus.
,   Eight new myriocin analogs, 2-epi-myriocin, Z-14-deoxomyriocin, and nor-deoxomyriocins, and a known myriocin derivative, 14-deoxomyriocin, were synthesized from 2-deoxy-D-glucose via common intermediates in previous myriocin and Z-myriocin syntheses. The immunosuppressive activities of new myriocin analogs and Z-myriocin on mouse allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction were examined, and, by comparing with those of myriocin and 14-deoxomyriocin, some structure-activity relationships have been found.
,   We present a measurement of the left-right cross-section asymmetry ( A(LR)) for Z boson production by e(+)e(-) collisions. The measurement includes the final data taken with the SLD detector at the SLAC Linear Collider during the period 1996-1998. Using a sample of 383 487 Z decays collected during the 1996-1998 runs we measure the pole value of the asymmetry, A(0)(LR), to be 0.150 56+/-0.002 39 which is equivalent to an effective weak mixing angle of sin (2)straight theta(eff)(W) = 0.231 07+/-0.000 30. Our result for the complete 1992-1998 data set comprising approximately 537 000 Z decays is sin (2)straight theta(eff)(W) = 0.230 97+/-0.000 27.
,   We investigate the diffusion generated deterministically by periodic iterated maps that are defined by x(t+1) = x(t)+ax(z)(t)exp[-(b/x(t))(z-1)], z>1. It is shown that the obtained mean squared displacement grows asymptotically as sigma(2)(t) approximately ln (1/(z-1))(t) and that the corresponding propagator decays exponentially with the scaling variable |x|/square root of (sigma(2)(t))]. This strong diffusional anomaly stems from the anomalously broad distribution of waiting times in the corresponding random walk process and leads to a behavior obtained for diffusion in the presence of random local fields. A scaling approach is introduced which connects the explicit form of the maps to the mean squared displacement.
,   The effect of HMG1 on the transcriptional block caused by left-handed Z-form in a highly negatively supercoiled DNA was examined using a supercoiled plasmid containing a (CG)10 sequence downstream of promoters. The transcription by E. coli RNA polymerase was blocked at the boundary of alternating CG sequence in the Z-form. In the presence of HMG1, RNA polymerase could transcribe through the CG sequence resulting in the chain elongation of transcripts. The addition of HMG1 allowed the stalled RNA polymerase at the CG block to resume transcription. These suggest that HMG1 may remove the Z-block by flipping it back into the B-form.
,   The metabolism of N-nitroso-N-methyl-N-(2-oxopropyl)amine was examined using freshly isolated hepatocytes from Fischer 344 rats. As determined by high performance liquid chromatography, it was found that the E isomer was preferentially metabolized when the parent mixture was used. When the two isomers were studied separately, the E isomer was efficiently metabolized in the hepatocytic system, whereas the Z isomer was not. The kinetics of disappearance of the Z isomer during metabolism was identical to that for the reequilibration of the Z isomer to the mixture of isomers in the absence of a metabolizing system.
,   Suppose [Xi, i> or =1] and [Yi, i> or =1] are two independent sequences with distribution functions FX(x) and FY(x), respectively. Z(i,n) is the combination of Xi and Yi with a probability pn for each i with 1< or =i< or =n. The extreme value distribution GZ(x) of this particular triangular array of the i.i.d. random variables Z(1,n), Z(2,n),..., Z(n,n) is discussed. We found a new form of the extreme value distribution LambdaA(Rhox)Lambda(x)(0<Rho<1), which is not max-stable. It occurs if FX(x) and FY(x) belong to the same MDA(Lambda). GZ(x) does not exist as mixture forms of the different types of extreme value distributions.
,   Results of high-energy X-ray diffraction experiments coupled to atomic pair distribution function analysis of disordered low-Z materials are presented. Several scientifically and technologically important classes of disordered low-Z materials such as small and large organic molecules, graphitic powders, polymers and liquids are intentionally explored to certify the technique's performance. Results clearly show that disordered low-Z materials can be well characterized in terms of material's phase identity, relative abundance in mixtures and atomic-scale structure. The demonstrated efficiency of the technique provides the scientific community with much needed confidence to apply it more often than now.
,   1. High pressure liquid radiochromatography was used to show the incorporation of [14C] formate with Z-compounds into ATP and GTP in opossum erythrocytes. 2. The use of Z-riboside with [14C] formate resulted in more extensive labeling of ATP than the Z-base/[14C] formate combination as substrates for nucleotide biosynthesis. 3. Substantial accumulation of ZMP and ZTP, but no ZDP was detected in the chromatograms. 4. ATP was unstable in red cells metabolizing in the presence of Z-compounds under an atmosphere of air as gas phase in these experiments.
,   Euglena gracilis Z is one of the few microorganisms which simultaneously produces antioxidant vitamins such as beta-carotene and vitamins C and E. Photoheterotrophically cultured E. gracilis Z produced larger levels of biomass but with a lower content of antioxidant vitamins than photoautotrophically grown cultures. For efficient production of these vitamins, a two-step culture was performed. Cells were grown photoheterotrophically and then transferred to photoautotrophic conditions. When E. gracilis Z cells were grown in fed-batch culture under photoheterotrophic conditions, their density reached 19 g/L after 145 h. Subsequent transfer of these cells to photoautotrophic conditions increased vitamin content, enhancing the total vitamin yields, which were 71.0 mg/L of beta-carotene, 30.1 mg/L of vitamin E, and 86.5 mg/L of vitamin C. (c) 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
,   We have tried to demonstrate the existence of a mixed haplotype MHC class II molecule in (NZB x NZW)F1 (B/WF1) mice. When a large panel of keyhole limpet hemocyanin-specific T cell clones derived from B/WF1 mice was analyzed, several clones were shown to be restricted by a F1-specific A beta Z/A alpha d class II molecule. Autoreactive A beta Z/A alpha d-specific T cell clones were also obtained. The ability of the association and expression of A beta Z with A alpha d was confirmed by hybridoma and transfection experiments. Hybridoma cell lines created by fusion of NZW (H-2z) spleen cells with M12.C3 (a A beta d- variant cell line derived from M12.4.1 (H-2d) B lymphoma) cells expressed A beta Z determinants. Transfection of A beta Z genomic DNA to M12.C3 cells resulted in the expression of A beta Z determinants. These hybridoma cell lines and transfectants were able to stimulate A beta Z/A alpha d-specific T cell clones, suggesting the expression of A beta Z/A alpha d molecules on the cell surface. However, attempts to demonstrate the existence of mixed haplotype MHC class II molecules in B/WF1 mice by two-dimensional (nonequilibrium pH gradient gel electrophoresis/SDS-PAGE) gel electrophoresis analysis with the use of anti-class II mAb failed to demonstrate the existence of mixed haplotype A beta Z/A alpha d or A beta d/A alpha z class II molecules in B/WF1 mice. Analysis of mixture of TA beta Z cell and B/WF1 spleen cell lysates immunoprecipitated by anti-A beta Z mAb suggested that the amount of haplotype mixed A beta Z/A alpha d molecules in B/WF1 spleen cells is less than 1/10 that of haplotype matched A beta/A alpha pairs. Our results suggest that, although undetectable by biochemical analysis, small amounts of mixed haplotype A beta Z/A alpha d molecules exist in B/WF1 spleen cells. Also, T cell clones which recognize them exists in B/WF1 mice. Because autoimmune symptoms of B/WF1 mice are shown to be related to heterozygosity at the H-2 region, autoreactive T cell clones which recognize the mixed haplotype A beta Z/A alpha d class II molecule might be involved for the induction of autoimmunity in B/WF1 mice.
,   To identify the cathepsins in adult worms of Schistosoma japonicum and their proteolytic activities. vomitus from adult worms of S. japonicum was collected. The proteolytic activity of cathepsins in the vomitus was identified and measured using synthetic substrates with arginyl bonds.cific synthetic subtracts Z-Arg-Arg-AMC (for cathepsin B) and Z-Phe-Arg-AMC (for cathepsin B and L) were degraded by the vomitus. An inhibitor, Z-Phe-PheCHN2 for cathepsin L, inhibited partially the activity of the vomitus to degrade Z-Phe-Arg-AMC. The optimal pH for cathepsin B/L is 5.0-5.5. vomitus of S. japonicum has cathepsin B- and L-like activity.
,   [reaction: see text] Copper-mediated homocoupling of sterically hindered 2-(2,4,6-tri-tert-butylphenyl)-1-trialkylsilyl-2-phosphaethenyllithiums afforded 1,2-bis(trialkylsilyl)-3,4-diphosphacyclobutenes (1,2-dihydrodiphosphetenes) through a formal electrocyclic [2+2] cyclization in the P=C-C=P skeleton as well as 2-trimethylsilyl-1,4-diphosphabuta-1,3-diene. Reduction of 1,2-bis(trimethylsilyl)-3,4-diphosphacyclobutenes followed by quenching with electrophiles afforded ring-opened products, (E)-1,2-bis(phosphino)-1,2-bis(trimethylsilyl)ethene and (Z)-2,3-bis(trimethylsilyl)-1,4-diphosphabut-1-ene. The structures of the ring-opened products indicated E/Z isomerization around the C=C bond after P-P bond cleavage of 5, and the isomerization of the P-C=C skeleton. Ring opening of 1,2-bis(trimethylsilyl)-3,4-diphosphacyclobutenes affording (E,E)- and (Z,Z)-1,4-diphosphabuta-1,3-dienes was observed upon desilylation.
,   We study the elastic properties of single heteropolymers. By means of exact enumeration of conformations, Monte Carlo (MC) simulation, and variational principles, we calculate equilibrium force-extension curves of heterocopolymers for specific arrangements of the monomer types along the sequence. At a given extension z, the time averaged measured force is the weighted sum of restoring forces for various configurations. Using variational principles, we calculate force-extension (f-z) curves of heteropolymers with fixed extensions z. These results are compared with f-z curves obtained from MC simulations and exact enumeration of all conformations. Typical random sequences manifest several piecewise unfoldings of blocks of various size, which are overlapping due to thermal fluctuations. The shape of the elastic response of a heteropolymer reflects the disorder in the primary block structure and the binding energies of these blocks.
,   The coupled cluster singles and doubles method with perturbative treatment of triple excitations is applied to calculate the potentials of M(z)-X complexes (M = Cu, Ag, and Au; X = He, Ne, and Ar; and z = ±1). The bond functions and the basis set superposition errors are considered to obtain accurate interaction energies. The potential energy curves of all complexes are obtained. The vibrational energy levels and the spectroscopic parameters for these complexes are determined. The analytical potential energy functions are also fitted based on the potential energies.
,   The accuracy of maximum entropy reconstruction of Z-contrast STEM images has been evaluated with the effects of experimental variables and noise taken into account by the means of image simulation. As the specimen contains atom species of greatly different atomic numbers, special attention is given to the reliability of the position and composition of lighter atoms that are determined from Z-contrast images in the presence of heavier atoms. When the noise is moderate (SNR >2.5), the position of atom columns can be measured within an accuracy of 0.03 nm. With a higher signal-to-noise ratio (SNR >5) the composition of lighter atoms can be resolved reliably from the Z-contrast images. However, when image noise increases, the relative intensity of lighter atoms may deviate from the actual value in the specimen object function.
,   Aspergillus saitoi acid carboxypeptidase hydrolyzed C-terminal peptidyl-L-proline bonds and released the C-terminal proline from Z-Gly-Pro-Leu-Gly-Pro and Z-Gly-Pro at pH 3.3. Proline liberated by the enzymic reaction was measured by a sensitive colorimetric ninhydrin method in glacial acetic acid at 513 nm. A Km value of 1.0 mM and a kcat value of 0.09 s-1 for Z-Gly-Pro-Leu-Gly-Pro hydrolysis, and a Km value of 5.0 mM and a kcat value of 0.0045 s-1 for Z-Gly-Pro hydrolysis were calculated from Lineweaver-Burk plots.
,   The topological resonance energy (TRE) was conceived in the 1970s. From the very beginning, it was known that TRE is equal to the collective energy-effect of all cycles present in a conjugated molecule. Also in the 1970s a theory of cyclic conjugation was elaborated, by means of which it was possible to compute the energy-effect ef(Z) of each individual cycle Z present in a conjugated molecule. Yet, the connection between TRE and the ef(Z)-values was, until now, not studied. We now show that TRE and the sum of the ef(Z)-values are closely correlated but that a certain correction needs to be made by taking into account the energy-effects of pairs, triplets, quartets, etc. of cycles.
,   In this paper, an efficient way to synthesize 2-(1'(Z)-iodoalkenyl)tetrahydrofurans from 4,5-alkadienols and I(2) was developed. The reaction of the 4,5-allenols with a substituent in the 3-position afforded the trans-2,3-disubstituted tetrahydrofurans with very high diastereoselectivity. However, when the axially optically active 4,5-allenol was treated with I(2) in n-hexane, the efficiency for chirality transfer was low. This problem was circumvented by conducting the reaction in CH(2)Cl(2) at room temperature and applying N-iodosuccinimide as the electrophilic reagent; however, the Z/E ratio for the products is much lower. Highly optically active Z-products may be prepared via the kinetic resolution via a Sonogashira coupling reaction with propargyl alcohol.
,   A fatality that was due to massive ingestion of the thioxanthene neuroleptic (Z)-cis-clopenthixol (zuclopenthixol, Z-CPT) is described. The total toxicological screening and the quantitation of both the ingested drugs and its inactive isomer (E)-trans-clopenthixol (E-CPT, produced by in vivo isomerization) in postmortem fluids and viscerae were produced by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-diode array detection. Drug confirmation was carried out by HPLC-mass spectrometry with an ionspray interface. Although death occurred 40 h after the drug intake, postmortem blood concentrations were 391 and 275 mg/mL for Z-CPT and E-CPT, respectively (50 to 100 times the usual therapeutic values). The cause of death was suicide, and the manner was acute neuroleptic overdosage.
,   An aminopeptidase was found in canine cerebrospinal fluid via the presence of two products: Y, which has an [M + H]+ ion at m/z 182; and GGFM, which has an [M + H]+ ion at m/z 411. The linked scan at a constant ratio of the magnetic field to the electric field of the GGFM [M + H]+ ion at m/z 411 generates product ions at m/z 120, 150, 266, 297, 354, 357, and 411. That aminopeptidase was bestatin-sensitive (BSAP = bestatin-sensitive aminopeptidase), and had a half-time for disappearance of 60 min, maximum velocity of 1.08 nmol ml-1 min-1, and Michaelis constant of 0.26 nM.
,   Like the sequence of words in written language, comic book page layouts direct images into a deliberate reading sequence. Conventional wisdom would expect that comic panels follow the order of text: left-to-right and down - a "Z-path" - though several layouts can violate this order, such as Gestalt groupings of panels that deny a Z-path of reading. To examine how layouts pressure readers to choose pathways deviating from the Z-path, we presented participants with comic pages empty of content, and asked them to number the panels in the order they would read them. Participants frequently used strategies departing from both the traditional Z-path and Gestalt groupings. These preferences reveal a system of constraints that organizes panels into hierarchic constituents, guiding readers through comic page layouts.
,   Whereas the phosphates of B-DNA jut out into the solution, those of Z-DNA, being closer to DNA matter, are less subject to electrostatic screening by counterions. We present simple planar models of B- and Z-DNA that reflect these geometric features. The ionic strength dependence of the difference in the Poisson-Boltzmann electrostatic free energy of the models agrees with that measured by Pohl [Pohl, F. M. (1983) Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 47, 113-118]. This indicates that the electrostatics of the B-to-Z transition are primarily controlled by a qualitative geometrical difference and not by details of the DNA geometry or by complex electrostatic properties of the ionic solution.
,   A new model of Z-line structure in skeletal muscle is proposed. Unlike previous models it is capable of explaining the two apparently inconsistent lattice arrangements seen in thin sections, i.e., the "basket weave" lattice and the smaller lattice recently reported in the literature. The model is based on four looping helical strands derived from the I filaments within the Z line. Each of these four strands form hairpin-shaped loops within the Z line and then join with an adjacent I filament in the same sarcomere. The two apparently different lattices represent a common structure viewed at slightly different levels of section.
,   Self-imaging means image formation without the help of a lens or any other device between object and image. There are three versions of self-imaging: the classical Talbot effect (1836), the fractional Talbot effect, and the Montgomery effect (1967). Talbot required the object to be periodic; Montgomery realized that quasiperiodic suffices. Classical means that the distance from object to image is an integer multiple of the Talbot distance Z(T) = 2p2/lambda, where p is the grating period. Fractional implies a distance that is a simple fraction of Z(T): say, Z(T)/2, Z(T)/4, 3Z(T)/2.... We explore the most general case of the fractional Montgomery effect.
,   We describe a pair of time-integrated transmission spectrometers that are designed to survey 7-28 keV (1.9 to 0.43 Å) x-ray photons produced by experiments on the Sandia Z pulsed power facility. Each spectrometer uses a quartz 10-11 crystal in a Cauchois geometry with a slit to provide spatial resolution along one dimension. The spectrometers are located in the harsh environment of the Z vacuum chamber, which necessitates that their design be compact and rugged. Example data from calibration tests and Z experiments are shown that illustrate the utility of the instruments.
,   Rats were treated continuously with cis(Z)- or trans (E)-flupenthixol via drinking water for 6 months. Stereotypy responses to 0.15 mg/kg apomorphine (APOM) were enduringly, and stereospecifically, antagonised by cis (Z)-flupenthixol at either 0.5-1.0 or 1.4-3.0 mg/kg per day. Responses to 1.0 mg/kg APOM were antagonised after 5 days but enhanced after 6 months on cis (Z)-flupentixol (1.4-3.0 mg/kg per day). Distinct dopamine-dependent processes may be differentially sensitive to adaptation during extended neuroleptic treatment.
,   (Z)-5-(2-Bromovinyl)uracil was obtained by photoisomerization of the E. isomer. Similarly, (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine gave the required Z isomer. (Z)-5-(2-Bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine is much less active against herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and somewhat less active against herpes simplex virus type 2 than is the E isomer. Both isomers show similar activity against vaccinia virus. Therefore, the highly potent and selective activity of (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine against HSV-1 is due to its E configuration.
,   A case of subdural hematoma following ACTH-Z therapy for infantile spasms was presented. A female baby of 5 months old showed little clinical evidence of cerebral dysfunction associated with subdural hematoma. There have been several reports about the relationship between steroid treatment and apparent brain atrophy on the CT brain scans. Then, we studied the CT brain scans before and after ACTH-Z therapy for infantile spasms, atonic seizure or Lennox syndrome and showed some relationship between apparent brain atrophy on the CT brain scans and ACTH-Z treatment. We also discussed the possible etiology of apparent brain atrophy and subdural hematoma, and stressed the necessity of extreme caution with long-term ACTH-Z administration.
,   A Cu-catalyzed divergent hydroboration of thioacetylenes has been achieved, providing (Z)-1-thio- or (Z)-2-thio-1-alkenyl boronates in moderate to high yields with excellent regio- and stereoselectivity, by using pinacolborane or bis(pinacolato)diboron as the hydroborating reagents, respectively. DFT calculations indicate that the sulfur atom plays a key role in determining the regioselectivity through polarizing the C-C triple bonds and participating in the HOMO orbitals. Moreover, the SR group can serve as a good leaving group, resulting in the concise synthesis of six regio- and stereoisomers of trisubstituted alkenes 5 via the iterative cross-coupling of C-B and C-S bonds. Clearly, it will be valuable for assembling stereochemically diverse trisubstituted olefins in organic synthesis. 
,   The ability of rat hepatoma cells extracts to repair O6-methylguanine was measured using as substrate alkylated DNA and alkylated poly(dG-m5dC).poly(dG-m5dC) either in the B or in the Z conformation. The O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase had similar activities on DNA and on the right-handed polymer. However, when the polymer was in the Z conformation, the protein activity represented approximately 10% of that measured on DNA. Therefore the efficiency of O6-methylguanine repair is related to the DNA conformation and is markedly reduced during the B to Z transition of the substrate.
,   Relationship between pyrimidine distribution patterns and radiosensitivity (Z) of DNA molecules of different species was derived by computer analysis of recurrence frequency of pyrimidine clusters. Blocking factors (beta) and Z for coding and non-coding DNA sequences of species from different taxonomic classes have been calculated within a new model. The radiosensitivity of coding DNA sequences practically does not vary whereas Z values were increased during evolution from simplest to higher organisms. The beta and Z values calculated for several groups of individual genes were shown to vary considerably.
,   New neutral gauge bosons (Z' 's) are predicted by many models of physics beyond the standard electroweak theory. It is possible that a Z' will be discovered by the Large Hadron Collider program. The next step would be to measure its properties to identify the underlying theory that gave rise to the Z'. Heavy quarks have the unique property that they can be identified in the final states. In this Letter we demonstrate that measuring Z' decays to b- and t-quark final states can act as an effective means of discriminating between models with extra gauge bosons.
,   The type species of the genus Zambedania Mahunka, 1972 (Z. africana Mahunka, 1972) is redescribed based on the holotype collected from soil in Zimbabwe. Two new species are described and illustrated herewith: Z. madagascariana from Madagascar and Z. argentiniana from Argentina. The generic diagnosis of Zambedania is amended, and the key to its species is supplied. Morphology, taxonomy and biology of included species are briefly discussed. The first record of the genus being phoretic on a South American nemesiid spider is presented. 
,   We report that a modified Z-scan method by nonlinear ellipse rotation (NER) can be used to discriminate true nonlinear refraction from thermal effect in the transient regime and steady state. The combination of Z-scan and NER allows us to measure the third-order nonlinear susceptibility component without the influence of thermal-optical nonlinearity. The experimental results of pure CS(2) and CS(2) solutions of nigrosine verify that the transient thermal effect can be successfully eliminated from the NER-modified Z-scan measurements. This method is also extended to the case in which thermal-optical nonlinearities depend on a high repetition rate of femtosecond laser pulses for the N,N-dimethylmethanamide solutions of graphene oxide.
,   In disseminated prostate cancer, expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2) is one of the pathways to androgen independence. Radionuclide molecular imaging of HER2 expression in disseminated prostate cancer might identify patients for HER2-targeted therapy. Affibody molecules are small (7 kDa) targeting proteins with high potential as tracers for radionuclide imaging. The goal of this study was to develop an optimal Affibody-based tracer for visualization of HER2 expression in prostate cancer.ynthetic variant of the anti-HER2 Z(HER2:342) Affibody molecule, Z(HER2:S1), was N-terminally conjugated with the chelators DOTA, NOTA and NODAGA. The conjugated proteins were biophysically characterized by electrospray ionization mass spectroscopy (ESI-MS), circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy and surface plasmon resonance (SPR)-based biosensor analysis. After labelling with (111)In, the biodistribution was assessed in normal mice and the two most promising conjugates were further evaluated for tumour targeting in mice bearing DU-145 prostate cancer xenografts. HER2-binding equilibrium dissociation constants were 130, 140 and 90 pM for DOTA-Z(HER2:S1), NOTA-Z(HER2:S1) and NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1), respectively. A comparative study of (111)In-labelled DOTA-Z(HER2:S1), NOTA-Z(HER2:S1) and NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1) in normal mice demonstrated a substantial influence of the chelators on the biodistribution properties of the conjugates. (111)In-NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1) had the most rapid clearance from blood and healthy tissues. (111)In-NOTA-Z(HER2:S1) showed high hepatic uptake and was excluded from further evaluation. (111)In-DOTA-Z(HER2:S1) and (111)In-NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1) demonstrated specific uptake in DU-145 prostate cancer xenografts in nude mice. The tumour uptake of (111)In-NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1), 5.6 ± 0.4%ID/g, was significantly lower than the uptake of (111)In-DOTA-Z(HER2:S1), 7.4 ± 0.5%ID/g, presumably because of lower bioavailability due to more rapid clearance. (111)In-NODAGA-Z(HER2:S1) provided higher tumour-to-blood ratio, but somewhat lower tumour-to-liver, tumour-to-spleen and tumour-to-bone ratios.ce distant prostate cancer metastases are situated in bone or bone marrow, the higher tumour-to-bone ratio is the most important. This renders (111)In-DOTA-Z(HER2:S1) a preferable agent for imaging of HER2 expression in disseminated prostate cancer.
,   Male pink bollworm,Pectinophora gossypiella, were tested in a sustained flight tunnel to 119 blend-dosage combinations of the sex pheromone components, (Z,Z)- and (Z,E)-7,11-hexadecadienyl acetates, which are released by conspecific females in a 61∶39 ratio. Hierarchical cluster analysis was used to define an area of peak attraction. Within this area males were most sensitive at lower dosages to ratios around the natural blend of components, but exhibited peak response levels at higher dosages to a wide range of blends, with a shift in blend preference to higherZ,Z isomer ratios at the highest dosage tested (10 mg). Male response specificity appeared to be influenced exclusively by a threshold for initiation of upwind flight, and not arrestment of upwind flight. The results are compared with those of another species, the Oriental fruit moth. 
,   The alkynyl(vinylidene)rhodium(I) complexes trans-[Rh(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CR)(=C=CHR)(PiPr3)2] 2, 5, 6 react with CO by migratory insertion to give stereoselectively the butenynyl compounds trans-[Rh{eta1-(Z)-C(=CHR)C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CR}(CO)(PiPr3)2](Z)-7-9, of which (Z)-7 (R=Ph) and (Z)-8 (R=tBu) rearrange upon heating or UV irradiation to the (E) isomers. Similarly, trans-[Rh{eta1-C(=CH2)C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CPh}(CO)(PiPr3)2] 12 and trans-[Rh{eta1-(Z)-C(=CHCO2Me)C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CR}(CO)(PiPr3)2](Z)-15, (Z)-16 have been prepared. At room temperature, the corresponding "non-substituted" derivative trans-[Rh{eta1-C(=CH2)C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CH}(CO)(PiPr3)2] 18 is in equilibrium with the butatrienyl isomer trans-[Rh(eta1-CH=]C=C=CH2)(CO)(PiPr3)2] 19 that rearranges photochemically to the alkynyl complex trans-[Rh(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CH2)(CO)(PiPr3)2] 20. Reactions of (Z)-7, (E)-7, (Z)-8 and (E)-8 with carboxylic acids R'CO2H (R'=CH3, CF3) yield either the butenyne (Z)- and/or (E)-RC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CHR or a mixture of the butenyne and the isomeric butatriene, the ratio of which depends on both R and R'. Treatment of 2 (R=Ph) with HCl at -40 degrees C affords five-coordinate [RhCl(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CPh){(Z)-CH=CHPh}(PiPr3)2] 23, which at room temperature reacts by C-C coupling to give trans-[RhCl{eta2-(Z)-PhC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CHPh}(PiPr3)2](Z)-21. The related compound trans-[RhCl(eta2-HC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CH2)(PiPr3)2] 27, prepared from trans-[Rh(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CH)(=C=CH2)(PiPr3)2] 17 and HCl, rearranges to the vinylvinylidene isomer trans-[RhCl(=C=CHCH=CH2)(PiPr3)2] 28. While stepwise reaction of 2with CF3CO2H yields, via alkynyl(vinyl)rhodium(III) intermediates (Z)-29 and (E)-29, the alkyne complexes trans-[Rh(kappa1-O2CCF3)(eta2-PhC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CHPh)(PiPr3)2](Z)-30 and (E)-30, from 2 and CH3CO2H the acetato derivative [Rh(kappa2-O2CCH3)(PiPr3)2] 33 and (Z)-PhC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=]CHPh are obtained. From 6 (R=CO2Me) and HCl or HC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCO2Me the chelate complexes [RhX(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCO2Me){kappa2(C,O)-CH=CHC(OMe)=O}(PiPr3)2] 34 (X=Cl) and 35 (X=C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCO2Me) have been prepared. In contrast to the reactions of [Rh(kappa2-O2CCH3)(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CE)(CH=CHE)(PiPr3)2] 37(E=CO2Me) with chloride sources which give, via intramolecular C-C coupling, four-coordinate trans-[RhCl{eta2-(E)-EC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CCH=CHE}(PiPr3)2](E)-36, treatment of 37with HC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CE affords, via insertion of the alkyne into the rhodium-vinyl bond, six-coordinate [Rh(kappa2-O2CCH3)(C[triple bond, length as m-dash]CE){eta1-(E,E)-C(=CHE)CH=CHE}(PiPr3)2] 38. The latter reacts with MgCl2 to yield trans-[RhCl{eta2-(E,E)-EC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CC(=CHE)CH=CHE}(PiPr3)2] 39, which, in the presence of CO, generates the substituted hexadienyne (E,E)-EC[triple bond, length as m-dash]CC(=CHE)CH=CHE 40.
,   Preterm parturition has been associated with decidual vascular disorders and excessive thrombin generation. The objective of this study was to examine maternal plasma concentrations of protein Z in normal pregnancies, as well as in those presenting with spontaneous preterm labor (PTL) and intrauterine bleeding during pregnancy.ross-sectional study was designed to include patients with preterm labor and intact membranes and those with idiopathic intrauterine bleeding during pregnancy. Protein Z plasma concentrations were measured in the following groups: (1) normal pregnant women (n = 71); (2) patients at term with (n = 67) and without labor (n = 88); (3) patients with spontaneous PTL before 34 weeks who were classified into: (a) PTL with intra-amniotic infection/inflammation (IAI; n = 35), (b) PTL without IAI (n = 54), and (c) patients with PTL who delivered at term (n = 49); and (4) patients with idiopathic intrauterine bleeding in the second and third trimester who were divided into: (a) subsequent spontaneous PTL and delivery, and (b) term delivery. Maternal plasma protein Z concentration was measured by a specific and sensitive immunoassay. Moreover, the amniotic fluid concentration of protein Z was determined in a subset of patients with preterm labor (n = 30). There was no correlation between maternal plasma protein Z concentration and gestational age in normal pregnant women. (2) The mean maternal plasma concentration of protein Z was significantly lower in women during spontaneous labor at term than in those not in labor (mean 2.15 microg/mL (95% CI 2.01-2.29) vs. mean 2.45+/-0.52 microg/mL (95% CI 2.34-2.56), respectively; p = 0.001). (3) Women with PTL without IAI who delivered preterm had a significantly lower mean protein Z concentration than normal pregnant women (mean 2.12 mug/mL (95% CI 1.98-2.26) vs. mean 2.39 microg/mL (95% CI 2.28-2.5); p = 0.008). (4) Of interest, PTL with IAI was not associated with lower plasma concentrations of protein Z, nor were those with PTL who delivered at term (p > 0.05 for each). (5) No differences were found in the maternal plasma concentrations of anti-protein Z antibodies between normal pregnancies and those with spontaneous PTL. (6) Patients with idiopathic intrauterine bleeding who had spontaneous PTL and delivery had a significantly lower mean plasma protein Z concentration than those who delivered at term (mean 1.24 microg/mL (95% CI 1.08-1.4) vs. mean 1.49+/-0.47 microg/mL (95% CI 1.33-1.65), respectively; p = 0.03). (7) Amniotic fluid was found to contain immunoreactive protein Z. Patients with PTL leading to preterm delivery in the absence of IAI had a significantly lower plasma concentration of protein Z than those with normal pregnancies. (2) Patients with idiopathic intrauterine bleeding and subsequently spontaneous PTL and delivery had a significantly lower plasma concentration of protein Z than those with idiopathic intrauterine bleeding who delivered at term. (3) Protein Z was present in the amniotic fluid of patients with PTL. Collectively, these observations suggest that a subgroup of patients with PTL have a hemostatic disorder that involves bleeding/thrombosis as a mechanism of disease.
,   The composition of the sex pheromone ofSesamia grisescens was investigated using gas chromatography, electroantennograms, and field trapping. (Z)-11-Hexadecenyl acetate and (Z)-11-hexadecenol were identified in field tests as the major attractants. Trapping trials identified a 3:2 blend of these compounds as the most effective bait. Gas chromatography indicated the presence of hexadecyl acetate. (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate, (Z)-9-hexadecenol, and (E)-11-hexadecenyl acetate in the pheromone gland, but these compounds had no significant effect on trap catches when added to the major components. Traps baited with the major components in a 1:1 ratio caught more male moths than traps baited with virgin females. 
,   The rice looper,Plusia festucae, is a defoliator of the rice plant. Chromatographic behavior, chemical reactions, and GC-MS analyses of the female sex pheromone revealed that the main component was (Z)-5-dodecenyl acetate (Z5-12: OAc, component I). The GC-MS analysis also indicated that the pheromone gland extract included another three monounsaturated components, (Z)-5-dodecen-l-ol (Z5-12: OH, component II), (Z)-7-tetradecenyl acetate (Z7-14: OAc, component III), and (Z)-7-tetradecen-l-ol (Z7-14: OH, component IV) in the following ratio: I:II:III:IV=100:6:15:1. In a paddy field, the mixture of synthetic I, II, and III in a ratio of 100:6:15 showed stronger attractancy than the virgin female, while the role of IV was unknown. 
,   (Z)-11-Hexadecenyl acetate, the main pheromone component of Sesamia nonagrioides sex pheromone, is biosynthesized from palmitic acid by Delta(11)-desaturation followed by reduction and acetylation. Production of (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate is regulated by the Pheromone Biosynthesis Activating Neuropeptide (PBAN). Transformation of (Z)-11-hexadecen-1-ol into the corresponding acetate is a target step for PBAN in the regulation of this biosynthetic sequence, thus being the first example of a PBAN-activated acetylation. The production of the minor component (Z)-11-hexadecenal is also stimulated by PBAN. The usefulness of pentafluorobenzyloxime-derivatives for the analysis of aldehyde pheromone constituents by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry is also reported.
,   The CDF and D0 data of nearly 475 pb(-1) in the dilepton channel is used to probe a recent class of models, Stueckelberg extensions of the standard model (StSM), which predict a Z' boson whose mass is of topological origin with a very narrow decay width. A Drell-Yan analysis for dilepton production via this Z' shows that the current data put constraints on the parameter space of the StSM. With a total integrated luminosity of 8 fb(-1), the very narrow can be discovered up to a mass of about 600 GeV. The StSM Z' will be very distinct since it can occur in the region where a Randall-Sundrum graviton is excluded.
,   The reduction of tyrosine Y(.)(Z) by benzidine and exogenous Mn(2+) was studied by kinetic EPR experiments in various Photosystem II (PSII) preparations. Using lanthanide treated PSII membranes it was demonstrated that neither the extrinsic polypeptides (17, 23 and 33 kDa) nor the Mn complex block the accessibility of Y(.)(Z) to exogenous reductants, such as benzidine. In addition, it was shown that in the presence of the native Mn complex exogenous Mn(2+) does not reduce Y(.)(Z).
,   (Z)-1,1-dichloro-2-(4-benzyloxyphenyl)-2,3-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)cyc lopropane (5), a potential antitumor agent designed to treat breast cancer, was prepared in three steps. A stereospecific palladium-catalyzed cross coupling reaction which provided the intermediate (Z)-triaryl alkene 4 was a crucial step in the synthesis. Makosza phase transfer reaction on 4 gave the enantiomeric (Z)-dichlorocyclopropane derivatives 5 which were resolved by semipreparative HPLC on a chiral stationary phase consisting of amylose tris-3,5-dimethylphenyl carbamate coated on silica gel.
,   Anacardic acids, 2-methylcardols, and cardols isolated from various parts of the cashew [Anacardium occidentale] (Anacardiaceae) fruit have been found to exhibit tyrosinase inhibitory activity. Kinetic studies with the two principal active compounds, 6-[8(Z),11(Z),14-pentadecatrienyl]salicylic acid and 5-[8(Z),11(Z),14-pentadecatrienyl]resorcinol, have indicated that both of these phenolic compounds exhibit characteristic competitive inhibition of the oxidation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) by mushroom tyrosinase.
,   Naturally occurring carbapenem antibiotics having a double bond in the side chain, when refluxed in chloroform containing quarternary alkylammonium halides, were converted into Z isomers in high yields. The mechanism of this new equilibration involves intramolecular proton transfer from the carboxylic acid to the carbon alpha to the sulfur atom in the side chain as shown by deuterium-labeling experiments. Some Z isomers showed stronger protective effects in mice infected by Escherichia coli O-111 and more potent synergistic activities with cefotiam in mice infected by Proteus vulgaris GN4815 than did the naturally occurring E isomers. The decomposition rates of the Z isomers in mouse kidney homogenates were about 3-fold slower than those of the E isomers.
,   The Z-line, the transitional zone from oesophageal to gastric mucosa, is a clearly defined point of reference. Selective forceps biopsies were obtained from the Z-line, just below it from the cardia and 1-3 cm above it from the oesophagus, in 79 patients with an age average of 47 1/2 years. A comparison was made between endoscopic and histological findings, on the one hand, and symptoms on the other. Moderately severe inflammatory changes correlated positively with only minor endoscopic changes of the Z-line: patients of this group had significantly more symptoms of reflux than those with a normal line. Exact endoscopy, complemented by histological examination, can discover reflux oesphagitis in its early stages, although endoscopically and histologically the delineation from normal is difficult.
,   We present final measurements of the Z boson-lepton coupling asymmetry parameters A(e), A(mu), and A(tau) with the complete sample of polarized Z bosons collected by the SLD detector at the SLAC Linear Collider. From the left-right production and decay polar angle asymmetries in leptonic Z decays we measure A(e) = 0.1544+/-0.0060, A(mu) = 0.142+/-0.015, and A(tau) = 0.136+/-0.015. Combined with our left-right asymmetry measured from hadronic decays, we find A(e) = 0.1516+/-0.0021. Assuming lepton universality, we obtain a combined effective weak mixing angle of sin (2)theta(eff)(W) = 0.230 98+/-0.000 26.
,   Shannon information entropies in position and momentum spaces and their sum are calculated as functions of Z(2 < or = Z < or = 54) in atoms. Roothaan-Hartree-Fock electron wave functions are used. The universal property S = a + b ln Z is verified. In addition, we calculate the Kullback-Leibler relative entropy, the Jensen-Shannon divergence, Onicescu's information energy, and a complexity measure recently proposed. Shell effects at closed-shell atoms are observed. The complexity measure shows local minima at the closed-shell atoms indicating that for the above atoms complexity decreases with respect to neighboring atoms. It is seen that complexity fluctuates around an average value, indicating that the atom cannot grow in complexity as Z increases. Onicescu's information energy is correlated with the ionization potential. Kullback distance and Jensen-Shannon distance are employed to compare Roothaan-Hartree-Fock density distributions with other densities of previous works.
,   Here we report a photochemical and kinetic study of the thermal relaxation reaction of a double azobenzene system, in which two azobenzene photochromic units are connected via a phenyl ring. Upon UV irradiation, three thermally unstable isomers are formed. Kinetic studies using arrayed (1)H-NMR spectroscopy revealed four distinct barriers for the thermal reversion to the stable isomer. The double isomerised Z,Z-2 can revert thermally to the E,E-2 isomer via either of two isomerisation pathways. The thermal Z to E isomerisations are not significantly affected by the state of the neighbouring azo-switching unit in the meta position. These findings are supported by quantum chemical calculations on the thermal Z to E isomerisation.
,   Noncollinear magnetic order is typically characterized by a tetrad ground state manifold (GSM) of three perpendicular vectors or nematic directors. We study three types of tetrad orders in two spatial dimensions, whose GSMs are SO(3) = S(3)/Z(2), S(3)/Z(4), and S(3)/Q(8), respectively. Q(8) denotes the non-Abelian quaternion group with eight elements. We demonstrate that after quantum disordering these three types of tetrad orders, the systems enter fully gapped liquid phases described by Z(2), Z(4), and non-Abelian quaternion gauge field theories, respectively. The latter case realizes Kitaev's non-Abelian toric code in terms of a rather simple spin-1 SU(2) quantum magnet. This non-Abelian topological phase possesses a 22-fold ground state degeneracy on the torus arising from the 22 representations of the Drinfeld double of Q(8).
,   Recently, the scaling result z=d for the dynamic critical exponent at the Bose glass to superfluid quantum phase transition has been questioned both on theoretical and numerical grounds. This motivates a careful evaluation of the critical exponents in order to determine the actual value of z. We study a model of quantum bosons at T=0 with disorder in 2D using highly effective worm Monte Carlo simulations. Our data analysis is based on a finite-size scaling approach to determine the scaling of the quantum correlation time from simulation data for boson world lines. The resulting critical exponents are z=1.8±0.05, ν=1.15±0.03, and η=-0.3±0.1, hence suggesting that z=2 is not satisfied.
,   A simple one-step purification method, using expanded bed, ion-exchange chromatography, for the fractionation of nisin Z produced by Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis A164 was developed. The highest dynamic binding capacity (0.92) of the adsorbent was obtained at a superficial velocity of 367 cm h(-1), resulting in approx. 2.7-fold bed expansion. The range of pH for the maximum adsorption was 3-4. The isocratic elution with 0.15 M NaCl led to approx. >90% recovery. Single-step purification of nisin Z from unclarified A164 culture broth resulted in 31-fold purification with a 90% yield.
,   A 6,9-nonadecadiene, (Z)-9-nonadecene, andn-nonadecane were identified in extracts of sex pheromone glands of femaleSabulodes caberata Guenée. Potential pheromonal activity of gland components was assessed by electroantennogram measurements of gas-chromatographic fractions of abdominal tip extracts. Chemical identification was based on gas chromatography and mass spectrometry of parent compounds, hydrogenation products, ozonolysis products, dimethyl disulfide adducts, and synthesis. The monoene was synthesized via coupling of alkyl and acetylenic intermediates. (Z,Z)-6,9-Nonadecadiene (Z6,Z9-19∶H) was synthesized from methyl linoleate via chain lengthening. SyntheticZ6,Z9-19∶H had the same retention times on polar and nonpolar capillary gas-chromatographic columns as the 6,9-nonadecadiene from the sex pheromone glands. In field testsZ6,Z9-19:H alone produced trap catch of maleS. caberata and addition of (Z)-9-nonadecene orn-nonadecane had no effect on trap catch. 
,   Three compounds have been identified in the abdominal tip extracts from the female leopard moth,Zeuzera pyrina L. Gas-liquid chromatography and mass spectroscopy data showed that (E, Z)-2, 13-octadecadien-1-ol acetate was the main component and that (Z)-13-octadecen-1-ol acetate and octadecan-1-ol acetate were secondary components. The electroanten-nographic responses of maleZ. pyrina to nanogram amounts of all four 2, 13-octadecadien-1-ol acetate isomers indicated that theE, Z isomer had the maximum activity. A strong EAG response was also recorded for (Z)-7-do-decen-1-ol acetate, which was not detected in the female extracts. 
,   We have characterized the nuclear rDNA unit of Euglena gracilis var. bacillaris and compared it to that of the Z strain. We have localized restriction sites for Eco R1, Sal 1, Sma 1, Hind III, Bam H1 and Bgl II on this unit as well as the coding region for 20 S and 25 S rRNAs. For both strains, results suggest an homogeneity of the 11.6 kbp rDNA units. Comparison between strains shows differences characterized by two additional Sal 1 sites in bacillaris and the likely methylation of one Sma 1 site in Z. Both differences are localized in a non-coding region of the rDNA unit. Analyses of 18 Euglena strains from various origins confirm these differences and allow easy recognition of bacillaris and Z type strains. 
,   [This corrects the article on p. 1406 in vol. 50.].
,   The combined experimental and numerical study finds a complex mechanism of Z(2) symmetry breaking involving global bifurcations for the first time in hydrodynamics. In addition to symmetry breaking via pitchfork bifurcation, the Z(2) symmetry of a rotating wave that occurs in Taylor-Couette flow is broken by a global saddle-node-infinite-period (SNIP) bifurcation after it has undergone a Neimark-Sacker bifurcation to a Z(2)-symmetric modulated rotating wave. Unexpected complexity in the bifurcation structure arises as the curves of cyclic pitchfork, Neimark-Sacker, and SNIP bifurcations are traced towards their apparent merging point. Instead of symmetry breaking due to a SNIP bifurcation, we find a more complex mechanism of Z(2) symmetry breaking involving nonsymmetric two-tori undergoing saddle-loop homoclinic bifurcations and complex dynamics in the vicinity of this global bifurcation.
,   Nucleosome-cores were reconstituted by the salt-dialysis method onto closed circular pDHg16 DNA which contains a d(CG/GC)12 sequence. Alternating d(CG/GC)n sequences form left-handed Z-DNA readily when contained in negatively supercoiled DNA. We have investigated the ability of the d(CG/GC)12 sequence to be organized into nucleosome-cores when stabilized as Z-DNA through negative supercoiling. We have found that nucleosome assembly at the d(CG/GC)12 insert is prevented when the sequence is stable in the Z-conformation but it is not affected at all when the sequence adopts the right-handed B-form.
,   Herein, we report the synthesis, separation and characterisation of the E- and Z-isomers of dipyrrolyldiphenylethene to study their emission behaviour in the aggregation state and solid state. The E-isomer showed pronounced aggregation induced emission (AIE) whereas the Z-isomer showed crystallization induced emission (CIE). The present study explains that the emission behaviour (AIE/CIE) is dependent on the inter/intra molecular interactions between the molecules. The study also confirms that restriction of intramolecular rotation (RIR) is the main cause of AIE/CIE in olefinic luminogens Tetraphenylethylene (TPE) type systems rather than E/Z isomerisation. 
,   To determine whether Z scores can be used to predict the likelihood of patients having a secondary cause of low bone mineral density.etrospective cross sectional study was conducted among 136 consecutive patients with osteoporosis at Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, UK, between 1998-2002.5% of female patients in this study were identified with previously unrecognised contributors to the low bone mineral density. In women, at a Z score cut-off of -1, the sensitivity of detecting a secondary cause for osteoporosis is 87.5% with a positive predictive value of 29.2%.women, a Z score of -1 would identify a majority of patients with a secondary cause for low bone mineral density and identifies patients who would especially benefit from a thorough history and clinical examination.
,   A study conducted in 30 normal human colons, obtained from cadaveric kidney donors, has evidenced the presence of two polymorphic antigenic specificities, W and Z, in the secretory cells of the colon mucosa. Three phenotypes have been demonstrated so far: W-Z- (frequency: 0.17), W-Z+ (frequency: 0.23), and W+Z+ (frequency: 0.60). Specific anti-WZ and anti-W alloantibodies, independent of anti-A and B agglutinins, were found in normal sera from blood donors. No apparent correlation was found between the WZ specificities and the ABH Lewis specificities, the other blood group systems specificities, and the leucocyte group (HL-A) specificities.
,   The stereoselective hydrogenation of alkynes to alkenes is an extremely useful transformation in synthetic chemistry. Despite numerous reports for the synthesis of Z-alkenes, the hydrogenation of alkynes to give E-alkenes is still not well resolved. In particular, selective preparation of both Z- and E-alkenes by the same catalytic hydrogenation system using molecular H2 has rarely been reported. In this paper, a novel strategy of using simple alkenes as promoters for the HB(C6 F5 )2 -catalyzed metal-free hydrogenation of alkynes was adopted. Significantly, both Z- and E-alkenes can be furnished by hydrogenation with molecular H2 in high yields with excellent stereoselectivities. Further experimental and theoretical mechanistic studies suggest that interactions between H and F atoms of the alkene promoter, borane intermediate, and H2 play an essential role in promoting the hydrogenolysis reaction. 
,   Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADAR) catalyze adenosine to inosine editing within double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) substrates. Inosine is read as a guanine by most cellular processes and therefore these changes create codons for a different amino acid, stop codons or even a new splice-site allowing protein diversity generated from a single gene. We review here the current structural and molecular knowledge on RNA editing by the ADAR family of protein. We focus especially on two types of nucleic acid binding domains present in ADARs, namely the dsRNA and Z-DNA binding domains.
,   In this paper, we present a 3-D temporal focusing microscope based on an electrically tunable lens (ETL) and a femtosecond regenerative laser amplifier. The focus-tunable lens provides a fast and compact way to perform non-mechanical z-scanning and resolves the blurry image issue compared with GVD-based z-scanning methods. The optical performance of the temporal focusing system, including z-scanning characteristics, the associated the magnification variation, and the lateral and axial resolution, has been studied and characterized using calibrated Rhodamine-6G thin film sample, fluorescent beads, and pollen samples. Lastly, we demonstrate the optical cross-sectioning and z-scanning capability with an in vivo experiment, where Ca<sup>2+</sup> imaging of neurons in GaCamp6 labeled zebrafish was performed. 
,   The total synthesis of the naturally occurring (Z)-2-methoxy-5-hexadecenoic acid and (Z)-2-methoxy-6-hexadecenoic acid was accomplished using as a key step Mukaiyama's trimethylsilyl cyanide addition to 4- and 5-pentadecenal, respectively. These syntheses further confirm the structures of the natural marine fatty acids and corroborate their cis double-bond stereochemistry. The title compounds were antimicrobial against the Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus (MIC 0.35 micromol/mL) and Streptococcus faecalis (MIC 0.35 micromol/mL).
,   We derive a generalized counting rule for hard exclusive processes involving parton orbital angular momentum and hadron helicity flip. We start with a systematic way to enumerate the Fock components of a hadronic light-cone wave function with n partons and orbital angular momentum projection l(z). We show that the wave-function amplitude psi(n)(x(i),k(i perpendicular ),l(zi)) has a leading behavior 1/(k(2)( perpendicular ))[n(+|l(z)|+min(n(')+|l(')(z)|)]/2-1) when all parton transverse momenta are uniformly large, where n(') and l(')(z) are the number of partons and orbital angular momentum projection, respectively, of an amplitude that mixes under renormalization. Besides the generalized counting rule, the result can be used as a constraint in modeling the hadronic light-cone wave functions.
,   The uptake of tritiated nikkomycin Z, a potent inhibitor of chitin synthetase, is mediated by a peptide transport system in Candida albicans. Kinetic transport assays with radioactive di- and tripeptides and competition studies suggest that two distinct systems operate in this yeast. Nikkomycin Z was transported through one of these systems, common to di- and tripeptides. A peptide transport-deficient mutant was isolated on the basis of its resistance to nikkomycin Z. The mutant lost most of its capacity to take up dipeptides but simultaneously increased its ability to transport tripeptides. These results indicate that C. albicans handles peptides through multiple transport systems and adjusts their expression to environmental conditions.
,   Thirty muteins* of interleukin-2 were studied by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography in a gradient mode. Values of the stoichiometry-factor Z [from Geng and Regnier, J. Chromatogr., 296 (1984) 15] varied over a 2.5-fold range for these proteins of similar molecular weight and composition. It is proposed that the more hydrophobic and/or more stable proteins have smaller values of Z while the larger Z-values correspond to a higher degree of protein unfolding during reversed-phase retention. The practical utility of this approach was demonstrated when these Z values were used to predict correctly a reversal in elution order for two closely related interleukin-2 muteins, when shallower gradients were used.
,   The crystal and molecular structure of d(CGUA'CG)2 (where A' is 2-aminoadenine) has been determined and refined to an R factor of 13.8% for data 8.0-1.3 A. The structure is very similar to the original Z-DNA structures with the sequence d(CGCGCG)2 [Gessner, R. V., Frederick, C. A., Quigley, G. J., Rich, A., & Wang, A. H.-J. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 7921] and shows that the substitution of 2-aminoadenine-uracil base pairs in the two central steps is consistent with Z-DNA formation. In addition, we show how waters mediating intermolecular interactions may help to explain the ZI-ZII conformational pattern found in many Z-DNA structures.
,   We study the orbital angular momentum (OAM) L_{z} in two-dimensional chiral (p_{x}+ip_{y})^{ν}-wave superfluids (SFs) of N fermions on a disk at zero temperature, in terms of spectral asymmetry and spectral flow. It is shown that L_{z}=νN/2 for any integer ν, in the Bose-Einstein condensation regime. In contrast, in the BCS limit, while the OAM is L_{z}=N/2 for the p+ip-wave SF, for chiral SFs with ν≥2, the OAM is remarkably suppressed as L_{z}=N×O(Δ_{0}/ϵ_{F})≪N, where Δ_{0} is the gap amplitude and ϵ_{F} is the Fermi energy. We demonstrate that the difference between the p+ip-wave SF and the other chiral SFs in the BCS regimes originates from the nature of edge modes and related depairing effects. 
,   A "quantum" field-theoretic formulation of the dynamics of the contact process on a regular graph of degree z is introduced. A perturbative calculation in powers of 1/z of the effective potential for the density of particles phi(t) and an instantonic field psi(t) emerging from the formalism is performed. Corrections to the mean-field distribution of densities of particles in the out-of-equilibrium stationary state are derived in powers of 1/z. Results for typical (e.g., average density) and rare fluctuation (e.g. lifetime of the metastable state) properties are in very good agreement with numerical simulations carried out on D-dimensional hypercubic (z=2D) and Cayley lattices.
,   Maximum-likelihood estimates are made for the exponent p in the phenomenological redshift-distance relation z [unk] r(p) for galaxies at redshifts less, similar0.03, on the basis of redshift (z)-magnitude (m)-apparent diameter (theta) observations given in the Reference Catalogue of Bright Galaxies [de Vaucouleurs, G. & de Vaucouleurs, A. (1964)]. The estimates are in the range 1.96 </= p </= 2.04 for the full sample of 742 galaxies having m - z - theta data, with dispersions less, similar0.08, and in a similar but broader range for various subsamples. Explicit allowance for an observational cut-off in apparent magnitude in the m - z relation reinforces the result that p approximately 2. Independent estimation based on a cut-off independent generalized Kafka-Schmidt V/V(m) test for a subsample in conservatively limited redshift and magnitude ranges, yields p = 2.05.
,   Hit selection is the ultimate goal in many high-throughput screens. Various analytic methods are available for this purpose. Some commonly used ones are z score, z* score, strictly standardized mean difference (SSMD), SSMD*, and t statistic. It is critical to know how to use them correctly because the misusage of them can readily produce misleading results. Here, the author presents basic concepts, elaborates their commonality and difference, describes some common misusage that people should avoid, and uses simulated simple examples to illustrate how to use them correctly.
,   We report on the first measurement of the angular distributions of final state electrons in pp¯ → γ*/Z → e(+)e(-) + X events produced in the Z boson mass region at √s1.96 TeV. The data sample collected by the CDF II detector for this result corresponds to 2.1  fb(-1) of integrated luminosity. The angular distributions are studied as a function of the transverse momentum of the electron-positron pair and show good agreement with the Lam-Tung relation, consistent with a spin-1 description of the gluon, and demonstrate that, at high values of the transverse momentum, Z bosons are produced via quark-antiquark annihilation and quark-gluon Compton processes.
,   A live attenuated varicella-zoster (V-Z) virus vaccine has been developed and tested by Dr. M. Takahashi and his colleagues in Japan. This vaccine appears to prevent varicella and is associated with minimal side effects even in patients at high risk to develop severe varicella. Antibody to V-Z virus appears after V-Z vaccination. This antibody has been detected by a variety of serologic technics, and it has been demonstrated to persist for as long as two years after vaccination. Thus far, V-Z vaccine has not been associated with subsequent zoster, but long-term studies will be required before this possibility can be ruled out.
,   A purified, monoclonal antibody, specific for the left-handed Z-form of poly(dG-dC), was coupled covalently to Sephacryl S-1000 beads. Such an antibody column provides a convenient method to isolate and purify those plasmid DNAs that contain Z-DNA from a large excess of other DNAs, RNA, etc. From a library of Escherichia coli DNA, cloned into the vector plasmid pUC-8, several recombinant plasmids were isolated, which bind to this antibody. Thus, E. coli contains sequences, which in "natural" negatively supercoiled DNA, adopt a left-handed Z-DNA-like conformation.
,   CD and IR studies show that poly(dG-dMeC) in dilute Mg++ and Na+ solutions (e.g., 2 mM Mg++ and 55 mM Na+) undergoes reversible thermal interconversion of B and Z forms, in contrast to previous reports that the transition is independent of temperature and has an enthalpy change of zero. The B conformation is stable under the above conditions at lower temperature (approximately 5 degrees) and the Z form above approximately 20 degrees. The conversion is relatively slow in both directions, but is more rapid in the Z leads to B direction.
,   We present an improved direct measurement of the parity-violation parameter A(b) in the Z boson-b-quark coupling using a self-calibrating track-charge technique applied to a sample enriched in Z-->bb events via the topological reconstruction of the B hadron mass. Manipulation of the Stanford Linear Collider electron-beam polarization permits the measurement of A(b) to be made independently of other Z-pole coupling parameters. From the 1996-1998 sample of 400,000 hadronic Z decays, produced with an average beam polarization of 73.4%, we find A(b)=0.906+/-0.022(stat)+/-0.023(syst).
,   Correction for 'Step-emulsification in a microfluidic device' by Z. Li et al., Lab Chip, 2015, 15, 1023-1031. 
,   A method for the quantatitive determination of pethidine in human urine by liquid secondary ion and tandem mass spectrometry is presented. Quantification was carried out by using ketamine as internal standard. It was found that the collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectrum of the [M + H]+ ion of pethidine exhibited a prominent daughter ion at m/z 220 and ketamine also yielded the same daughter ion at m/z 220. For ((quadrupole)) quantitative analysis, the first quadrupole mass filter was set to transmit m/z 220 and a narrow-range magnet scan yielded a spectrum of parents, including m/z 238 and 248, correspending to ketamine and pethidine, respectively.
,   Cytosols of rat and guinea pig liver and of human placenta were screened for their capacity to catalyze the conversion of racemic leukotriene A4 into 5S, 12R-dihydroxy-(Z,E,E,Z)-6,8,10,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (leukotriene B4). The epoxide hydrolase activities showed some specificity for the 5S,6S-oxido-(E,E,Z,Z)-7,9,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (LTA4) and produced mixtures of leukotriene B4 and its enantiomer containing up to 78-87% of leukotriene B4.
,   Interaction of the DNA binding nonintercalators Netropsin, Distamycin and the mPD derivative with Z-DNA has been studied. It has been found that environmental factors like the solvent and added cations significantly modulate the interaction of these ligands with Z-DNA. However no definite Z to B transition in presence of these ligands was found in any case, in contrast to previously reported results (Ch. Zimmer, C. Marck and W. Guschlbauer, FEBS Lett. 154, 156-160 (1983)).
,   In a multicentred survey of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, radiological details have been obtained in 165 subjects homozygous for Pi type Z and in 23 subjects heterozygous for type SZ. Eight-five per cent of all type Z subjects had radiological evidence of pulmonary emphysema which was commoner in smokers than in those who had never smoked and which predominantly affected the lower zones of the lungs; 66% of the type Z subjects identified through family studies also had emphysema. Emphysema in subjects of Pi type SZ was limited to those who had smoked; this phenotype may not carry a specific risk of emphysema.
,   E- and Z-10-hydroxyamitriptyline (E- and Z-10-OH-AT) are racemic alcoholic metabolites of the antidepressant amitriptyline. Their enantiomers were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography as diastereomeric derivatives using R-(+)-alpha-methoxy-alpha-trifluoromethylphenylacetyl chloride (Mosher's reagent). Although E-10-hydroxyamitriptyline excreted in patient urine in free form or as the O-glucuronide consisted primarily of the (-)-enantiomer, the N-glucuronide contained similar amounts of the two enantiomers. Z-10-OH-AT was analysed in one patient and an excess of the (+)-isomer was found in the unconjugated, total conjugated and N-glucuronidated metabolite. The specific optical rotation of (-)-E-10-OH-AT was determined.
,   This appendix is a compilation of information from Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) and provides information about the major nucleoside/nucleotide constituents and structures for A-, B-, and Z-DNA. Tables and figures provide (1) experimentally useful properties of the nucleoside/nucleotide building blocks; (2) chemical structures of the nucleosides; (3) aspects of nucleotide stereochemistry that are important to an understanding of base pairing and secondary structure; (4) alternative (non-Watson-Crick) base pairings; and (5) the three best characterized helix structures for DNA: A-, B-, and Z-DNA.
,   We propose a simple criterion based on the Z-scoreto assess the quality of energy functions for protein folding: one should obtain Z>-10 for the equilibrium ensembleat about native conditions. We derive this criterionby studying a Go model with random errors added to the native interactions. The dependence of the Z-score on the thermodynamic parameters,including the noise, can be precisely obtained in this case,as the ground state of the model is known exactly.We apply this criterion to rapidly rule out two otherwise promisingpairwise energy approximations.The advantage of adopting the present criterionis that it is not necessary to know the ground state of an energy function to assess its quality. It is sufficient to compute the Z-scorefrom a single equilibrium simulation at around the folding temperature.
,   Volatiles emitted byAnastrepha suspensa andAnastrepha ludens males were trapped and compared by GC-MS. Both species emitted previously reported nine-carbon alcohols, (Z)-3-nonenol and (Z,Z)-3,6-nonadienol, and epimeric lactones, anastrephin and epianastrephin. A third isomeric lactone, the macrolide suspensolide, which was previously known only fromA. suspensa is reported here for the first time in the volatiles ofA. ludens. We also report that both species released different proportions of the same three sesquiterpene hydrocarbons:α-farnesene,β-bisabolene, andα-trans-bergamotene. Theβ-bisabolene was isolated in sufficient quantity fromA. suspensa volatiles to establish its absolute configuration as the (R)-(+)-enantiomer. Some plausible biosynthetic relationships of farnesol to the isoprenoid lactones and sesquiterpenes identified in this study are discussed. Finally, we report thatA. suspensa produces the monoterpene (Z)-β-ocimene whileA. ludens volatiles contained limonene. 
,   Knoevenagel condensation of O-acetoacetylTEMPOs (2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl) with aldehydes substituted with an electron-withdrawing group such as aromatic and heteroaromatic ones leads preferentially to E-adducts, while acylacetoamides including Weinreb amides produce Z-adducts, exclusively. These E- and Z-adducts are selectively converted to the corresponding (2E)- and (2Z)-2-hyroxyalkyl-2-alkenals, respectively, by stepwise reductions of the acyl group with DIBALH and then the carboxylic functions after protection of the hydroxy group. Transformation of the Knoevenagel products by taking advantage of the E-geometry to trisubstituted furans is also developed.
,   The incoherent imaging model is applied to interpret high-resolution Z-contrast micrographs. A simple method for a column-by-column resolved characterisation of Ag-rich precipitates in Al-Ag is developed. No information on the detailed imaging process is required. Evaluating the high-angle scattering intensities of Al and Ag by image analysis, the number of Ag atoms contained in individual atomic columns can be determined accurately and moreover, the thickness of the thin foil can be calculated. Multislice simulations confirm the broad validity of the incoherent imaging model for Z-contrast STEM and are used to check the method presented. Finally, the image analysis is applied to experimental Z-contrast images of Guinier-Preston zones in Al-3 at% Ag. The Ag content of the individual atomic columns can be determined with an accuracy better than +/-10%.
,   A statistical-mechanical model is suggested that makes it possible to describe the B-Z transition in DNA with an arbitrary sequence of nucleotides. The key point consists in allowance for the fact that each base pair can assume one of the two states with different energies. One of these states corresponds to the standard Z-form with purines in the syn conformation and pyrimidines in the anti conformation. However, in natural DNA sequences such standard base-pair conformations should be interrupted by energetically unfavorable conformations (syn for pyrimidines and anti for purines). Open regions and cruciform structures are also allowed for in the model. The probabilities of formation of the Z-form stretches, open regions and cruciform structures have been calculated for different values of parameters for pBR322 and pAO3 DNA.
,   All-E or E,Z,E-oligoprenols may be synthesized from allylic stannanes by reaction with prenyl aldehydes. [reaction: see text]
,   Chitin and β-glucan are major cell wall components of Aspergillus spp. We investigated the antifungal activity of chitin synthesis inhibitors nikkomycin Z, polyoxin D, flufenoxuron, lufenuron, and teflubenzuron, alone and combined with the β-glucan synthesis inhibitor caspofungin. Only nikkomycin Z and caspofungin were found to act synergistically. The nikkomycin Z-induced chitin decrease corresponded with a β-glucan increase, while with the caspofungin-induced β-glucan decrease, an increase in chitin was found. This could explain the synergistic activity of this combination of drugs.
,   A series of new 3-[(Z)-2-methoxycarbonylvinylthio]-7 beta-[(2- aminothiazol-4-yl)acetamido]-cephalosporins (1) having various oxyimino groups (Z-form) at the alpha position of the C-7 side chain was synthesized and evaluated for antibacterial activity and oral absorption in rats. Of these, the cephalosporin (1a) with a hydroxyimino group in the C-7 side chain showed a potent antibacterial activity against Gram-negative bacteria and Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus as well as good oral absorption in rats. The structure-activity relationships of 1 are also presented.
,   Electron-positron pair creation in supercritical electric fields limits the net charge of any static, spherical object, such as superheavy nuclei, strangelets, and Q balls, or compact stars like neutron stars, quark stars, and black holes. For radii between 4 x 10(2) and 10(4) fm the upper bound on the net charge is given by the universal relation Z=0.71R(fm), and for larger radii (measured in femtometers or kilometers) Z=7 x 10(-5)R_(2)(fm)=7 x 10(31)R_(2)(km). For objects with nuclear density the relation corresponds to Z approximately 0.7A(1/3)( (10(8)<A<10(12)) and Z approximately equal to 7 x 10(-5)A(2/3) (A>10(12)), where A is the baryon number. For some systems this universal upper bound improves existing charge limits in the literature.
,   Bogorol A [(E)-1], a potent antibiotic against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus spp., possesses a thermodynamically unfavored (E)-2-amino-2-butenamide within its linear dodecapeptide sequence. The highly efficient total synthesis of natural (E)-isomer (E)-1 and its artificial (Z)-isomer (Z)-1 by employing a full solid-phase strategy is reported. The (E)- and (Z)-2-amino-2-butenamide moieties were stereoselectively constructed by applying traceless Staudinger ligation on the resin. Interestingly, (E)- and (Z)-1 showed comparable antimicrobial activity (MIC = 4 μg/mL). 
,   Lassa virus (LASV) small zinc-finger protein (Z), which contains two L-domain motifs, plays a central role in virus budding. Here, we report that co-expression of glycoprotein (GPC) altered the requirements for cholesterol but not the L-domains and host factor, Tsg101, for Z-induced virus-like particle (VLP) production. In particular, the cholesterol requirement for VLP production was cell-type-dependent. In addition, GPC was found to be important for co-localization of Z with CD63, a late endosomal marker. We also found that the N-terminal region (aa 3-10) of Z was critical for its myristoylation and VLP production. These findings will contribute to our understanding of LASV assembly and budding. 
,   A report of The Keystone Symposium on Plant Innate Immunity, Keystone, USA, 10-15 February 2008.
,   The relationship between phonetic context and inconsistent productions of /s/ and /z/ in the spontaneous speech of three approximately three-year-old children was investigated using a nonlexically constrained segmentation, the VCnV syllable. Cn represents any number of consonants occurring between two vowels. The results indicate that of the speech segments surrounding /s/ and /z/ only the identity of consonants following these segments was significantly related to the accuracy of /s/ and /z/ production. The implications of the data for models of speech production are discussed.
,   The synthesis of the protected tricosapeptide Z-Val-Lys(Z)-Pro-Gly-Glu(OBzl)-Gln-Ser-Phe-Val-Gly-Gln-Ala-Ala-Thr-Gly-His-Cys(MBzl)-Val-Ala-Thr-Ala-Thr-Ala-ONB is described. The tricosapeptide was built up from the decapeptide Z-Val-Lys(Z)-Pro-Gly-Glu(OBzl)-Gln-Ser-Phe-Val-Gly-ONp and the tridecapeptideester Gln-Ala-Ala-Thr-Gly-His-Cys(MBzl)-Val-Ala-Thr-Ala-Thr-Ala-ONB. A further nonadecapeptide with tert-butylmercapto protection of the SH group was also synthetized.
,   A new class of enantiopure ortho,ortho-disubstituted azobenzene photoswitches has been synthesized from (S)-2-(p-tolylsulfinyl)benzoquinone and arylhydrazines. The sulfoxide acts as a unidirectional controller of the helical chirality that arises in the Z isomer after photoisomerization. Highly congested E-azobenzenes 5 c showed two atropisomeric diastereoconformers in the solid state that converged upon irradiation into a unique Z isomer with defined helicity (M), as evident in the X-ray structure. The chiroptical properties of this three-state enantiopure switch can be externally tuned both photochemically and/or thermally. Theoretical CD spectra calculated by using time-dependent DFT methods support the existence of two atropoisomeric E isomers and only one Z isomer with (M) helicity. Complementary to the classical azobenzene-based switches, the photoswiching event is promoted under green/blue light and do not occur under UV irradiation.
,   To extract the volatile components of water caltrop and kernel and to analyze them. volatiles were separated by supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) and determined by GC-MS. extraction rates of water caltrop and kernel were 5.96% and 0.23%, respectively. The components determined by normalization method were mainly 9, 12-octadecadienoic acid (Z, Z), but the content was different. researches showed that the components in the volatile components of water caltrop and kernel were mainly 12-octadecadienoic acid (Z, Z), and then palmitinic acid, with a higher extraction rate of caltrop.
,   The first instances of Z- and enantioselective Ru-catalyzed olefin metathesis are presented. Ring-opening/cross-metathesis (ROCM) reactions of oxabicyclic alkenes and enol ethers and a phenyl vinyl sulfide are promoted by 0.5-5.0 mol % of enantiomerically pure stereogenic-at-Ru complexes with an aryloxy chelate tethered to the N-heterocyclic carbene. Products are formed efficiently and with exceptional enantioselectivity (>98:2 enantiomer ratio). Surprisingly, the enantioselective ROCM reactions proceed with high Z selectivity (up to 98% Z). Moreover, reactions proceed with the opposite sense of enantioselectivity versus aryl olefins, which afford E isomers exclusively. Preliminary DFT calculations in support of Curtin-Hammett kinetics as well as initial models that account for the stereoselectivity levels and trends are provided.
,   A superhard boron nitride phase dubbed as Z-BN is proposed as a possible intermediate phase between h-BN and zinc blende BN (c-BN), and investigated using first-principles calculations within the framework of density functional theory. Although the structure of Z-BN is similar to that of bct-BN containing four-eight BN rings, it is more energetically favorable than bct-BN. Our study reveals that Z-BN, with a considerable structural stability and high density comparable to c-BN, is a transparent insulator with an indirect band gap of about 5.27 eV. Amazingly, its Vickers hardness is 55.88 GPa which is comparable to that of c-BN. This new BN phase may be produced in experiments through cold compressing AB stacking h-BN due to its low transition pressure point of 3.3 GPa.
,   Exact chirped self-similar solutions of the generalized nonlinear Schrödinger equation with varying dispersion, nonlinearity, gain or absorption, and nonlinear gain have been found. The stability of these nonlinearly chirped solutions is then demonstrated numerically by adding Gaussian white noise and by evolving from an initial chirped Gaussian pulse, respectively. It is reported that the pulse position of these chirped pulses can be precisely piloted by tailoring the dispersion profile, and that the sech-shaped solitary waves can propagate stably in the regime of beta(z)gamma(z) > 0 as well as the regime of beta(z)gamma(z) < 0 , according to the magnitude of the nonlinear chirp parameter. Our theoretical predictions are in excellent agreement with the numerical simulations.
,   Several studies have suggested that Otu domain had de-ubiquitinating activity and Tudor domain was important for the formation of germ cells. Here, we reported a novel zebrafish ovary-specific gene containing Otu and Tudor domain, z-otu, which was expressed at stages I-III oocytes and embryonic stages from zygotes to early blastula during embryonic cells maintained their totipotency. Therefore, z-otu might link the ubiquitin signaling pathway to early oogenesis and maintaining the totipotency of embryonic cell.
,   Naturally occurring antibodies to left-handed Z-DNA have been shown to be present in the sera of human patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). These antibodies are of two types. One type reacts with both denatured DNA and Z-DNA. The other type is specific for Z-DNA and remained in the serum after removal of the cross-reactive antibody by extensive absorption on a denatured DNA affinity column. The antibodies appear to be specific for SLE and do not appear frequently in other rheumatic diseases. The presence of the antibody in SLE is correlated with the clinical manifestations of the disease, in parallel with antibodies to native and denatured DNA.
,   We apply a finite-difference algorithm that combines the local one-dimensional approximation and the Crank-Nicolson algorithms to solve the three-dimensional nonlinear Schrödinger equation. This scheme is unconditionally stable and accurate to second order. Therefore it offers a simple and accurate means to study a two-dimensional Z scan for arbitrary beam shape and medium length. As an example, we analyze the characteristics of a Z scan by utilizing an elliptic Gaussian beam for a thick nonlinear medium. The effects of ellipticity and waist separation of the elliptic beam on the normalized transmittance of the closed-aperture and open-aperture Z scan are demonstrated.
,   We have designed and produced hot, millimeter-scale, high-Z plasmas of interest for National Ignition Facility hohlraum target design. Using a high-Z gas fill produces electron temperatures in the 3.5-6-keV range, the highest temperatures measured to date for high-density (10(21) e/cm(3)) laser-heated plasmas, and much higher than the 3 keV found for low-Z (neopentane) fills. These measurements are in good agreement with the target design calculations, and the L-shell spectroscopic approach used to estimate the electron temperature has certain advantages over traditional K-shell approaches.
,   This work aims to detect the peritoneal fluid proteomic patterns in endometriosis patients, build diagnostic models, and evaluate its clinical significance. authors used SELDI-TOF-MS protein chip array technology to detect biomarkers of peritoneal fluid in endometriosis patients. Fourteen endometriosis patients and 16 persons without endometriosis as control group were tested.r potential biomarkers (4428m/z, 6891m/z, 13766m/z, and 6427m/z) were found.s method showed great potential in screening better biomarkers for endometriosis.
,   Z(SPA-1) is an engineered protein that binds to its parent, the three-helix-bundle Z domain of staphylococcal protein A. Uncomplexed Z(SPA-1) shows a reduced helix content and a melting behavior that is less cooperative, compared with the wild-type Z domain. Here we show that the difference in folding behavior between these two sequences can be partly understood in terms of an off-lattice model with 5-6 atoms per amino acid and a minimalistic potential, in which folding is driven by backbone hydrogen bonding and effective hydrophobic attraction.
,   This study reports the formation and isolation of a diethylstibestrol-dimethylsulfoxide (DES-DMSO) adjunct and Z-3, 4-di (p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-hexene (psi-DES) from trans-DES. The presence of psi-DES was indicated by NMR and mass spectrometry and confirmed by direct comparison to a reference sample. High resolution NMR (360 MHz) along with the comparison of the chemical shift values of methine and methyl protons attached to carbon-carbon double bonds in Z and E isomers of 3-substituted-2-pentenes and dienestrol derivatives were used in postulating the Z-stereochemistry for psi-DES. A NMR additive increment method was useful for the comparison of the chemical shift values of methine protons in psi-DES and other literature compounds. Nuclear Overhauser Enhancement (NOE) confirmed the Z-stereochemistry of psi-DES.
,   This paper considers the problem of monitoring slowly accruing data from a nonsequentially designed experiment. We describe the use of the B-value, which is a transformed Z-value, for the calculation of conditional power. In data monitoring, interim Z-values do not allow simple projections to the end of the study. Moreover, because of their popular association with P-values, Z-values are often misinterpreted. If observed trends are viewed as the realization of a Brownian motion process, the B-value and its decomposition allow simple extrapolations to the end of the study under a variety of hypotheses. Applications are presented to one- and two-sample Z-tests, the two-sample Wilcoxon rank sum test, and the log-rank test.
,   A novel modified space vector pulse width modulation (MSVPWM) strategy for Z-Source inverter is presented. By rearranging the position of shoot-through states, the frequency of inductor current ripple is kept constant. Compared with existing MSVPWM strategies, the proposed approach can reduce the maximum inductor current ripple. So the volume of Z-source network inductor can be designed smaller, which brings the beneficial effect on the miniaturization of the electric vehicle controller. Theoretical findings in the novel MSVPWM for Z-Source inverter have been verified by experiment results. 
,   (Z)-11-Eicosen-1-ol was identified by GC-MS and microchemical methods as a major volatile component, ca. 5 μg per insect, secreted by the sting apparatus of the worker honey bee. When presented on moving lures at the hive entrance, (Z)-11-eicosen-1-ol, like isopentyl acetate already known as an alarm pheromone, elicited stinging, and together these two compounds were as active as the natural pheromone from the sting. On stationary lures, (Z)-11-eicosen-1-ol prolonged the effectiveness of isopentyl acetate. 
,   The cuticular hydrocarbon components of four castes ofReticulitermes virginicus (Banks) have been identified and quantitated. Components identified includen-alkanes; 2-, 3-, 11-, 13-, and 15-methyl-alkanes; 11,15-dimethylalkanes, (Z)-9-alkenes; (Z,Z)-7,9-dienes; and (E/Z)-6,9-dienes ranging in carbon number from C21 to C40. All caste forms ofR.virginicus contained the same components, but showed caste-specific proportions. Comparison of these hydrocarbons with those of the sympatric termiteR. flavipes (Kollar) suggest that cuticular hydrocarbons might serve as species- and caste-recognition cues. A bioassay was developed to test this species-recognition hypothesis, with the experimental results supporting the hypothesis. 
,   [This corrects the article DOI: 10.1186/s12979-015-0034-z.]. 
,   Rat testicular nuclei have been probed for the presence of Z-DNA conformation by employing indirect immunofluorescence technique using anti-Z-DNA antibodies. Pachytene nuclei, in which meiotic recombination takes place, showed brighter fluorescence than the premeiotic and postmeiotic spermatogenic nuclei. Moreover, utilizing a novel chromatin immunoblotting technique, Z-DNA conformation was found to be enriched in the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated chromatin domains of the pachytene nucleus.
,   Larvae of the coccinellid beetle Cheilomenes sexmaculata (F.) produce an oviposition-deterring pheromone that inhibits egg laying of conspecific females on oviposition sites walked over by first-instar larvae. By use of bioassay-guided fractionation of larval extracts, (Z)-pentacos-12-ene was identified as an active component of the cuticular hydrocarbons of the larvae. Other compounds that occur in the active fractions, such as the alkaloid coccinelline and saturated hydrocarbons, were individually tested but proved to be inactive. The synthesis of (Z)-pentacos-12-ene is reported.
,   The combinatorics of the enveloping algebra UQ(pl(L)) of the general linear Lie superalgebra of a finite dimensional Z2-graded Q-vector space is studied. Three non-equivalent Z-forms of UQ(pl(L)) are introduced: one of these Z-forms is a version of the Kostant Z-form and the others are Lie algebra analogs of Rota and Stein's straightening formulae for the supersymmetric algebra Super[L P] and for its dual Super[L* P*]. The method is based on an extension of Capelli's technique of variabili ausiliarie to algebras containing positively and negatively signed elements.
,   The endogenous levels of several plant growth substances (indole acetic acid, IAA; abscisic acid, ABA; zeatin, Z; zeatin riboside, [9R]Z; isopentenyladenine, iP; and isopentenyladenosine, [9R]iP were measured during pod development of field grown oilseed Rape (Brassica napus L. var oleifera cv Bienvenu) with high performance liquid chromatography and immunoenzymic (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, ELISA) techniques. Results show that pod development is characterized by high levels of Z and [9R]Z in 3 day old fruits and of IAA on the fourth day. During pod maturation, initially a significant increase of IAA and cytokinins was observed, followed by a progressive rise of ABA levels and a concomitant decline of IAA and cytokinin (except iP) levels. The relationship between hormone levels and development, especially pod number, seed number per pod, and seed weight determination, will be discussed.
,   A still-air, wing fanning bioassay measured male pheromone response in the pink bollworm moth,Pectinophora gossypiella (Saunders). As pheromone concentration was increased, the duration of wing fanning increased while its latency decreased. Response duration was longest for the natural pheromone blend [44∶:56 (Z,E)- and (Z,Z)-7,11-hexadecadienyl acetates], although responses to 38% and 50%Z,E blends were not significantly briefer. Preexposure to pheromone had no effect on wing fanning in males retested after 24 hr. Wing fanning was highly correlated with upwind flight and other responses observed in a wind tunnel. Wing fanning duration provides a continuous measure of pheromone response and allows a large number of males to be tested in a short time; these two characteristics of the wingfanning assay are helpful for genetic analyses of male response. 
,   The courtship behaviors and cuticular hydrocarbons ofDrosophila rajasekari are described. Sexually mature males orient, tap, follow, vibrate their abdomens, extend and vibrate their wings, and attempt copulation during courtship. They perform these behaviors in response to immature and matureD. rajasekari of both sexes, and their courtship activities are facilitated by light. The predominant cuticular hydrocarbon found in both sexes is (Z,Z)-7,11-heptacosadiene (HCD), a compound known to be used as a courtship-stimulating sex pheromone by another fruit fly,D. melanogaster. Therefore, it is not surprising thatD. melanogaster males actively court both males and females from theD. rajasekari stock. However, HCD is apparently not used byD. rajasekari as a courtship-stimulating pheromone since matureD. rajasekari males do not courtD. melanogaster females, which produce large quantities of HCD. 
,   We extend the definition of "spectral dimension" d_{s} (usually defined for fractal and lattice geometries) to theories in spacetimes with anisotropic scaling. We show that in gravity with dynamical critical exponent z in D+1 dimensions, the spectral dimension of spacetime is d_{s}=1+D/z. In the case of gravity in 3+1 dimensions with z=3 in the UV which flows to z=1 in the IR, the spectral dimension changes from d_{s}=4 at large scales to d_{s}=2 at short distances. Remarkably, this is the behavior found numerically by Ambjørn et al. in their causal dynamical triangulations approach to quantum gravity.
,   The spatial and temperature dependence of the surface-induced orientational order parameter S(z,T) was determined in the isotropic phase. An optical fiber was immersed in a thin liquid crystal layer and the retardation was measured as a function of the fiber's height above the surface, from which the model-independent S(z,T) was deduced with resolution <or=2 nm. It was found that (i) S(z=0) <or=0.12 close to the nematic transition temperature, (ii) the susceptibility is mean-field-like, and (iii) S(z,T) deviates significantly from exponential spatial decay. The results are discussed in terms of a nonlocal potential.
,   The distribution of phosphocholine ions (m/z 184, m/z 86), sodium ions, and potassium ions in thyroid tumor cells was analyzed by imaging TOF-SIMS. Repeated sputtering with a C(60) (+) source and subsequent analysis with a Bi(3) (+) gun produced a series of 138 images that were stacked to make a 3D display of the chemistry of cells. Phosphocholine was seen in the plasma membrane (m/z 184) and intracellular membranes (m/z 86). The different fragmentation of the phospholipid probably reflects the chemical composition of membranes at these sites. High intensity of secondary ion signals of potassium was seen in membrane-encompassed cellular compartments. The data indicate that potassium ions are compartmentalized in thyroid tumor cells.
,   Perceptrons are typically trained to minimize mean square error (MSE). In computer-aided diagnosis (CAD), model performance is usually evaluated according to other more clinically relevant measures. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between MSE and the area (A(z)) under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the high-sensitivity partial ROC area ((0.90)A'(z)). A perceptron was used to predict lesion malignancy based on two mammographic findings and patient age. For each performance measure, the error surface in weight space was visualized. Comparison of the surfaces indicated that minimizing MSE tended to maximize A(z), but not (0.90)A'(z).
,   The crystal structures of [(Z)-2-methylbut-1-en-1-yl][4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]iodonium trifluoromethanesulfonate, C(12)H(13)F(3)I(+).CF(3)O(3)S(-), (I), (3,5-dichlorophenyl)[(Z)-2-methylbut-1-en-1-yl]iodonium trifluoromethanesulfonate, C(11)H(12)Cl(2)I(+).CF(3)O(3)S(-), (II), and bis[[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl][(Z)-2-methylbut-1-en-1-yl]iodonium] bis(trifluoromethanesulfonate) dichloromethane solvate, 2C(13)H(12)F(6)I(+).2CF(3)O(3)S(-).CH(2)Cl(2), (III), are described. Neither simple acyclic beta,beta-dialkyl-substituted alkenyl(aryl)idonium salts nor a series containing electron-deficient aryl rings have been described prior to this work. Compounds (I)-(III) were found to have distorted square-planar geometries, with each I atom interacting with two trifluoromethanesulfonate counter-ions.
,   It is well known that the exchange-correlation (XC) potential at a metal surface has an image-like asymptotic behaviour given by -1/4(z-z(0)), where z is the coordinate perpendicular to the surface. Using a suitable fully non-local functional prescription, we evaluate self-consistently the XC potential with the correct image behaviour for simple jellium surfaces in the range of metallic densities. This allows a proper comparison between the corresponding image-plane position, z(0), and other related quantities such as the centroid of an induced charge by an external perturbation. As a by-product, we assess the routinely used local density approximation when evaluating electron density profiles, work functions, and surface energies by focusing on the XC effects included in the fully non-local description.
,   We studied 11 patients with checkrein deformities of the hallux who underwent surgical treatment. Six had lengthening of the flexor hallucis longus tendon by Z-plasty in the midfoot, and five underwent release of adhesions and lengthening of the tendon by Z-plasty at the musculotendinous junction at the fracture site. All six patients who underwent Z-plasty at the midfoot showed complete correction of the deformity without recurrence. Of the five who had release of adhesions and Z-plasty of the tendon at the fracture site, two showed partial and one showed complete recurrence.
,   This report describes the normalized intimal-medial uptakes [uptake (M, mg.cm-2) divided serum concentration (c0, mg.cm-3)] of 125I-albumin, 125I-low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and in vivo Evans blue dye (EBD)-albumin complex as functions of pressure (P), time (t), molecular species (i), and location (z) along a ventral longitudinal z axis of the normal, intact, aortic endothelial surface in adult normocholesterolemic Sinclair Research Farm (SRF) minipigs and compares these uptake (M/c0) measurements with atherogenesis in hypercholesterolemic cohorts. Uptakes of porcine serum 125I-albumin (n = 21) and 125I-LDL (n = 10) were measured in freshly excised, metabolically supported aortas using a recently developed organ-support system. In vivo intimal-medial EBD uptake vs z data were measured photometrically on opened descending aortas from another group (n = 6) of normocholesterolemic, adult, SRF minipigs 18 hours after the intravenous administration of EBD. For comparison purposes, the corresponding incidence of atherosclerotic lesions along the aortic z axis was calculated using topographic data from hypercholesterolemic minipig cohorts (n = 39). The results showed that uptakes varied greatly with t, z, and macromolecule (i) but not with P. More specifically, the value of M/c0 at any location (z) rose with t, was insensitive to P, decreased with macromolecular (i) size, and varied with z in a pattern that "peaked" in the upstream region, decreased to a nadir in the downstream region, and then rose again as it approached the abdominal celiac orifice. The spatially z-averaged uptake rates for the three different labeled serum proteins were 0.31 x 10(-3) cm.h-1 for 125I-albumin, 0.42 x 10(-3) cm.h-1 for EBD-albumin, and 0.04 x 10(-3) cm.h-1 for 125I-LDL. Nondimensionalized analysis of the individual sets of uptake data indicated that the overall uptake relationship [M(t,P,z,i)/c(io), cm] could be characterized empirically by the simple product of two separate functions: one, a "scaling function" [m(z,i)], that described the uptake magnitude for a given i and z and appeared to be independent of t or P; the other, a "shape function" [s(t,P)], that described the shapes of the uptake vs t and P relationships and appeared to be independent of z or i. The "scaling function" [m(z,i)] vs z contour appeared to correlate well with the corresponding atherosclerotic lesion incidence vs z contour from the group of hypercholesterolemic minipig cohorts. Assuming passive transport, it was shown ("Appendix") that m(z,i) can be interpreted physically in terms of an endothelial diffusive permeability coefficient (P,cm.s-1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
,   There is general acceptance that the best substitute for a damaged distal ureter is an elongated bladder and that the bladder psoas hitch is the most reliable procedure. Nevertheless, it is not always sufficient to bridge a long ureteric gap. In order to obtain an equally safe but wider bladder elongation than the psoas hitch can provide, we have previously studied the effect of several Z-shaped incisions on isolated pig bladders. The aim of the present study was to verify, in vivo, the efficacy and safety of the new technique. Five sheep underwent the psoas hitch procedure and 6 the Z-plasty procedure. The results showed that Z-plasty provides an equally safe but longer bladder elongation than the psoas hitch procedure.
,   The origin of cardiac myofibrils in cells from the atrial wall in human embryos was studied, Z-band substance appears throughout the cytoplasm as irregular electron dense patches in a network of thin filaments. The thin and thick filaments are synthesized as separate units in the sarcoplasm and are later aggregated into myofibrils. Complexes of Z substance and thin filaments occur numerously at different stages of myofibrillar organisation. Thick filaments are formed in close proximity to free ribosomes and are later incorporated in an hexagonal pattern into the Z-band/thin filament complex.
,   The monofluoroalkene motif is important in drug development as it serves as a peptide bond isostere and is found in a number of biologically active compounds with various pharmacological activities. Direct olefination of carbonyl compound is a straightforward way to prepare monofluoroalkenes; however, these methods often result in a mixture of Z- and E-isomers that cannot be easily separated. We discovered a unique spontaneous resolving reaction that simultaneously addresses the problems in the synthesis and separation of Z- and E-monofluoroalkenes. The reaction is accompanied by a highly efficient spontaneous kinetic resolution and phase labeling of monofluoroalkene precursors which allows the separation of Z- and E-monofluoroalkenes by liquid-liquid extraction. The application of the method is demonstrated by the synthesis and separation of potential anticancer agents, which are inseparable by HPLC. 
,   A one-step substitution of a single chloride anion of the Grubbs-Hoveyda second-generation catalyst with a 2,4,6-triphenylbenzenethiolate ligand resulted in an active olefin metathesis catalyst with remarkable Z selectivity, reaching 96% in metathesis homocoupling of terminal olefins. High turnover numbers (up to 2000 for homocoupling of 1-octene) were obtained along with sustained appreciable Z selectivity (>85%). Apart from the Z selectivity, many properties of the new catalyst, such as robustness toward oxygen and water as well as a tendency to isomerize substrates and react with internal olefin products, resemble those of the parent catalyst.
,   The oxidation of (Z)-1,2-bis(arylseleno)-1-alkenes is known to afford alkynyl selenoxides via a unique selenoxide anti-elimination mechanism; however, to date, there have been no mechanistic studies of this reaction. During our studies of this transformation, monoselenoxides and were unexpectedly isolated as stable reaction intermediates. In addition, (77)Se NMR studies of the reaction mixture revealed the presence of an intramolecular SeO interaction and the formation of alkynyl selenoxides. Meanwhile, even at higher temperatures, the reaction of a (Z)-1,2-bis(arylsulfinyl)-1-alkene, the sulfur analog of (Z)-1,2-bis(arylseleninyl)-1-alkenes, did not proceed via sulfoxide elimination but proceeded via isomerization and disproportionation. Therefore, the intramolecular SeO interaction can be concluded to play a pivotal role in the anti-elimination reaction. 
,   For a relatively long optical pulse in a fiber with a dispersion distance z(0) much larger than the loss distance, a soliton cannot exist in an ideal sense. However, with a proper choice of the initial amplitude and amplifier distance z(a), a nonlinear pulse (a guiding-center soliton) propagates like a soliton over a distance much larger than the dispersion distance when it is periodically amplified at distances much shorter than the dispersion distance. The guidingcenter soliton is shown to satisfy the nonlinear Schrodinger equation with a correction of order (z(a)/z(0))(2). Numerical examples supported by analytical results are presented for distortionless propagation of the guiding-center solitons with a pulse width of 40 psec in a dispersion-shifted fiber of D = 1 psec/(nm-km).
,   ASTA Z 7557 potentiated the ex vivo efficiency of a T-cell directed immunotoxin containing pokeweed antiviral protein (PAP). We used an immunotoxin of pan-T monoclonal antibody 3-A1 directed against p41 antigen expressed both on normal and leukemic T-cells. Treatment with 3A1-PAP in combination with ASTA Z 7557 produced 7-8 logs elimination of target lymphoblastic leukemia cells. Our data suggest that this new strategy shows potential for more effective ex vivo marrow purging in autologous marrow transplantation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
,   We have developed techniques for high-pressure in situ density measurement of low-Z noncrystalline materials with a diamond-anvil cell (DAC) by an x-ray absorption method. In DAC experiments, accurate determination of the sample thickness is difficult. Moreover, since the sample in a DAC is thin and the interaction between low-Z materials and x rays is small, not the sample but the anvils absorb most of x rays. This makes the measurement quite difficult. We have overcome such difficulties and have successfully measured the density of SiO2 glass, a low-Z noncrystalline material, as a function of pressure up to 35 GPa.
,   This article describes the Z-SAGA pulse sequence, a technique for recovering susceptibility losses in EPI images for neuroimaging applications. The pulse sequence is based on an asymmetric spin echo EPI sequence and acquires a gradient echo image and an asymmetric spin echo image in a single shot. For one of the images, a z-shim gradient pulse is applied to compensate for susceptibility-related field distortions. The two images are combined to form an image with reduced signal loss. This sequence is simple to implement and experimentally demonstrated to be effective for BOLD imaging.
,   Measurements of four-lepton (4ℓ, ℓ=e,μ) production cross sections at the Z resonance in pp collisions at the LHC with the ATLAS detector are presented. For dilepton and four-lepton invariant mass regions m(ℓ+ℓ(-)) > 5 GeV and 80<m(4ℓ) < 100 GeV, the measured cross sections are 76 ± 18(stat) ± 4(syst) ± 1.4(lumi) fb and 107 ± 9(stat) ± 4(syst) ± 3.0(lumi) fb at sqrt[s] = 7 and 8 TeV, respectively. By subtracting the nonresonant 4ℓ production contributions and normalizing with Z → μ(+)μ(-) events, the branching fraction for the Z boson decay to 4ℓ is determined to be (3.20 ± 0.25(stat) ± 0.13(syst)) × 10(-6), consistent with the standard model prediction.
,   Formulations of Mexican rice borer (MRB) pheromone components were more effective in capturing males in fields of sugarcane when dispensed from rubber septa than when evaporated from four other substrates. Concentrations of 0.63-10.0 mg of total pheromone per lure were effective over a 112-day period when formulated in rubber septa in a ratio of 8∶1∶1.3 of (Z)-13-octadecenyl acetate, (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate, and (Z)-13-octadecenal, respectively. Component ratios of 4∶1∶1.3 and 8∶1∶1.3 were equally effective in capturing male MRB, but efficacy decreased with higher relative concentrations of (Z)-13-octadecenyl acetate. 
,   Our iterative inversion algorithm for retrieving absorption a(z) and backscattering b(b)(z) from profiles of upwelling and downwelling irradiance, on the basis of assuming a depth-independent phase function for the medium, was found to have unsatisfactory accuracy for b(b)(z) in clear waters. We modified the algorithm here by assuming a depth-independent phase function for the particles and then performing an additional iteration over the fraction of total scattering that is due to the water itself. The modified algorithm's accuracy is considerably improved over the original in clear waters and reduces to the original in waters for which the particle contribution to b(b)(z) is dominant.
,   We present a simple model to investigate the effect of chain diameter on multivalent-counterion-induced attractions between two charged chains. In our minimal model, the chains are rigid rods of diameter D with a uniform charge density on the surface, and the counterions are point ions. As a function of the separation between two rods, we find a repulsive barrier in the free energy whose height increases with D. We have also explored the effect of counterion valency Z on the interaction. For parameters characteristic of DNA, we find that a minimum valency of Z=3 is required to produce condensation. We also find that the shape of the potential is fairly insensitive to Z for Z>/=3. These results are consistent with experimental observations of DNA condensation.
,   An intramolecular [1,4]-S- to O-silyl migration has been used to form silyl enol ethers with Z-configurational control. The silyl migration also creates a new anion center at sulfur, which can subsequently react with electrophiles to generate Z-silyl enol ethers with diverse thioether linkages. The synthetic utility of this pathway was demonstrated by modifying the Z-silyl enol ethers with aldehydes via a Mukaiyama aldol reaction or Prins cyclization to generate functionalized organosulfur compounds. 
,   By employing the Gaussian decomposition method, the analytical formulas of the Gaussian-beam Z-scan traces have been derived for an optically thin material exhibiting both refractive and absorptive parts of third-order nonlinearity, with Gaussian or hyperbolic secant squared laser pulses of femtosecond duration. The formulas have been verified experimentally with femtosecond-pulsed Z scans on a carbon disulfide and acetone solution of a chalcone derivative (0.95C(18)H(17)ClO(4) . 0.05C(17)H(14)Cl(2)O(3)). An efficient yet accurate analytical technique has been demonstrated for extracting both the nonlinear refraction coefficient and the nonlinear absorption coefficient from a single closed-aperture Z-scan trace.
,   A new synthesis of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid and of its (E)- and (Z)-2-substituted analogues (R = CH3;i-Pr;C6H5) has been performed by means of the "diazo-addition" method, starting from N-(diphenylmethylene)-2,3-dehydro-1-amino-1-carboxylate precursors. The (E)- and (Z)-2-phenyl and the (Z)-2-methylcyclopropaneamino acids have been obtained with high diastereospecificity. All the cyclopropaneamino acids prepared were tested for their affinity for some glutamate receptors and resulted inactive, with the exception of compounds (E)-1b and (Z)-1c which showed a shallow displacement of [3H]-glycine binding.
,   [This retracts the article DOI: 10.1186/s40201-014-0153-z.]. 
,   Recent studies on the ferroelectricity origin of YMnO(3), a prototype of hexagonal manganites (h-RMnO(3), where R is a rare-earth-metal element), reveal that the d(0)-ness of a Y(3+) ion with an anisotropic Y 4d-O 2p hybridization is the main driving force of ferroelectricity. InMnO(3) (IMO) also belongs to the h-RMnO(3) family. However, the d(0)-ness-driven ferroelectricity cannot be expected because the trivalent In ion is characterized by a fully filled 4d orbital. Here we propose a new bonding mechanism of the hexagonal ferroelectricity in IMO: intra-atomic 4d(z(2))-5p(z) orbital mixing of In followed by asymmetric 4d(z(2))(In)-2p(z)(O) covalent bonding along the c axis.
,   Novel carboxylic acid derivatives were synthesized, which allowed switching of the intramolecular distance between amide group and carboxylic oxygen atoms using E to Z photoisomerization of the cinnamate framework. An intramolecular NH...O hydrogen bond was formed in the Z carboxylate compound not only in solution but also in the solid state. The pK(a) value of the carboxylic acid was lowered as a consequence of the E/Z photoisomerization.
,   When the photochromism of 2-(3'-pyridylmethylene)-7-ethylbenzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-ones (4) was investigated, high thermal stability of the E isomer of 4, 4(E) and good repeatability of the photoinduced E,Z-isomerization were found. Association constants of the 1:1 complexations of 4(Z) and 4(E) with the ureidoporphyrin 1 and with the pentafluorobenzamidoporphyrin 2 were evaluated. We found that 1 captures 4(E) preferentially to 4(Z) and, reversely, 2 prefers 4(Z) to 4(E). On the basis of these differences in the binding ability, we concluded that the repeatable movement of the hemithioindigo, so-called the hemithioindigo shuttle, between two kinds of porphyrins was controlled by the photoirradiation. These movements were applied to create a molecular switch for changes in the quinone distribution between two kinds of porphyrins.
,   Infrared specular reflection spectra of Z-Tetraol on a gold substrate was simulated and studied experimentally. The simulated spectra were obtained using a classical dispersion analysis coupled with solutions of Maxwell's equations for transmission and reflection of electromagnetic radiation. The simulated spectra, which are based on a randomly oriented sample, provide excellent fits for Z-Tetraol over a wide film thickness range. Spectroscopic data are provided for the Z-Tetraol -(CF2O)p-(CF2CF2O)q- main chain. The differences in the transverse and longitudinal optical infrared spectra are discussed for off-normal reflection spectra in the thin film limit. Corrections to the infrared reflection spectra for sub-monolayer coverage using effective medium theory are also discussed. 
,   The ordering of N equally charged particles (-e) moving in two dimensions and confined by a Coulomb potential, resulting from a displaced positive charge Ze is discussed. This is a classical model system for atoms. We obtain the configurations of charged particles which, depending on the value of N and Z, may result in ring structures, hexagonal-type configurations, and for N/Z approximately 1 in an inner structure of particles which is separated by an outer ring of particles. For N/Z<<1, the Hamiltonian of the parabolic confinement case is recovered. For N/Z approximately 1, the configurations are very different from those found in the case of a parabolic confinement potential. A hydrodynamic analysis is presented in order to highlight the correlations effects.
,   Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) sera, two classes of serum lipoproteins, and IgG antibodies from SLE and normal sera were tested for their reactivity with a Z-DNA polymer, Br-poly (dG-dC). In all cases preferential binding to Z-DNA over B-DNA was observed. This interaction, for the most part, could be inhibited by the negatively charged phospholipid, cardiolipin, which suggests that most of the anti-Z-DNA activity associated with sera arises from relatively non-specific ionic interactions between proteins and polyanionic molecules. An assay has been described that can eliminate proteins cross-reactive with negatively charged phospholipids.
,   Patients are encouraged to sit upright in bed after surgery in order to reduce the risk of pulmonary complications. Adjusting the hospital bed to place the patient in the la-z-boy position minimizes the work of nursing staff in maintaining the patient in an upright position. This study was designed to answer concerns that the la-z-boy position might impair muscle blood flow in the lower limbs and thereby predispose patients to venous thrombosis. In 11 healthy volunteers the authors measured and compared blood flow from the gastrocnemius muscle in the la-z-boy position and in the more conventional straight-leg position. There was no clinically or statistically significant difference in blood flow in the two positions.
,   We systematically explored a transannular Michael reaction cascade for stereoselective synthesis of polycyclic systems. Both E,Z- and E,E-1,7-bis-enones in the form of 14-membered macrocyclic lactones underwent transannular cyclization to give polycyclic products with high efficiency and excellent diastereoselectivity. In contrast, Z,E- and Z,Z-macrocyclic lactones did not cyclize under similar reaction conditions. Our study revealed similarities and subtle stereochemical differences between this transannular cyclization process and transannular Diels-Alder reactions. An acyl ketene approach was developed for efficient synthesis of macrocyclic lactones. This investigation also illuminated the scope and limitation of macrocyclization by intramolecular Reformatsky reaction to prepare macrocyclic lactones.
,   Enzyme stereospecificity and equilibrium thermodynamics can be demonstrated using the coupling of two amino acid derivatives by Thermoase C160. This protease will catalyze peptide bond formation between Z-L-AspOH and L-PheOMe to form the Aspartame precursor Z-L-Asp-L-PheOMe. Reaction completion manifests itself by precipitation of the product. As the product has almost zero solubility, the equilibrium favors condensation and thus a normally hydrolytic enzyme catalyzes the opposite reaction. Neither Z-D-AspOH with L-PheOMe nor Z-L-AspOH with D-PheOMe produces any visible product.
,   Cerulean cataract is an autosomal dominant, early onset, progressive cataract characterized by blue or white opacifications in the nucleus and cortex of the lens. A large four-generation pedigree in which cerulean cataract segregates was studied for linkage analysis. A genome wide search was undertaken after the plausible candidate genes were excluded and the cerulean cataract phenotype was mapped to chromosome 17q24. The three markers closest to the disease gene are D17S802 (Z)(theta) = 9.46 at (theta) = 0.085), D17S836 (Z(theta) = 5.26 at (theta) = 0.031) and AFMa238yb5 (Z(theta) = 7.11 at (theta) = 0.032). Multipoint linkage analyses yielded a maximum lod score of Z(theta) = 13.71, placing the cerulean cataract gene between D17S802 and D17S836 at (theta) = 0.048 and (theta) = 0.013, respectively.
,   Recently, Umirbaev proved the long-standing Anick conjecture, that is, there exist wild automorphisms of the free associative algebra Kx, y, z over a field K of characteristic 0. In particular, the well known Anick automorphism is wild. In this work, we obtain a stronger result (the Strong Anick Conjecture that implies the Anick Conjecture). Namely, we prove that there exist wild coordinates of Kx, y, z. In particular, the two nontrivial coordinates in the Anick automorphism are both wild. We establish a similar result for several large classes of automorphisms of Kx, y, z. We also discover a large, previously undescribed class of wild automorphisms of Kx, y, z that is not covered by the results of Umirbaev.
,   Asymmetric dihydroxylations ("ADs") of the pentenynyl chlorides (E)- and (Z)-1 or the pentenyne-based ester (Z)-3 in the presence of (DHQ)(2)-containing ligands delivered diol stereoisomers (2R,3S)-2, (2R,3R)-2, and (3S,4R)-4, respectively. The ADs of pentenynyl ethers (E)-10 and (Z)-12, respectively, have the same stereochemical preference under analogous conditions; these reattributions correct previous reports of the contrary. The Sharpless mnemonic rationalizes all these results implying that each substrate prefers a Sharpless/Norrby instead of a Chapleur orientation in the transition state.
,   New inhibitors of ethanol absorption, E-senegasaponins a and b, Z-senegasaponins a and b, Z-senegins II and III, were isolated from Senegae Radix, the roots of Polygala senega L. var latifolia Torrey et Gray, together with senegins II and III. Their chemical structures have been elucidated on the basis of chemical and physicochemical evidence, and the geometrical isomeric structures of methoxycinnamoyl moiety in each saponin were found to show tautomer-like behavior. The inhibitory effects of senegasaponins, senegins, and their related compounds have been examined, and some structure-activity relationship have been found.
,   A method is described for computing a Z estimator for the quantitative comparison of topographical patterns in 2 maps. Z can assume values between 1 and -1. The procedure is illustrated on a 3-shell head model for different configurations of current dipoles in the head space. The sensitivity of Z estimation can be adjusted by different weighting procedures or by using an average reference. When Z = 1 indicates identity of the set of active dipoles in the 2 maps compared, a dilation factor can be computed to estimate the enhanced or reduced activity of these generators.
,   From the fruits of Asparagus falcatus a novel minor (Z)-carotenoid has been isolated and, on the basis of spectral data interpretation, characterized as (9Z)-capsanthin-5,6-epoxide [(9Z,3S,5R,6S,3'S,5'R)-5,6-epoxy-3,3'-dihydroxy-5,6-dihydro-beta,kappa-caroten-6'-one, (1)]. In addition, seven other (Z)-carotenoids [namely, (9Z)-, (9'Z)-, (13Z)-, and (13'Z)-capsanthins, (9Z)- and (13Z)-capsorubins, and (9Z)-violaxanthin], which have been previously described from other plants, were isolated and identified.
,   By using Pd chemistry, a highly selective stereodivergent synthesis of separable amide rotamers was achieved. Allylation of 2,4,6-tri-tert-butylanilides using a pi-allyl-Pd catalyst gave N-allylated anilides with moderate-to-excellent Z-rotamer selectivity (Z/E = 3 to > 50). The Z-rotamer selectivity depends considerably on the substituent on the anilide substrates. On the other hand, the E rotamers of N-allylated 2,4,6-tri-tert-butylanilides were obtained with almost complete selectivity (E/Z > 50) through O-allylation of 2,4,6-tri-tert-butylanilides and the subsequent Pd(II)-catalyzed Claisen rearrangement of the resulting O-allyl imidate. The prepared anilide rotamers changed to equilibrium mixtures in which the E rotamer was the major isomer when heated in toluene.
,   Corrections of order α(s)(4) for the axial singlet contributions for the decay rate of the Z boson into hadrons are evaluated in the limit of the heavy top quark mass. Combined with recently finished O(α(s)(4)) calculations of the nonsinglet corrections, the new results directly lead us to the first complete O(α(s)(4)) prediction for the total hadronic decay rate of the Z boson. The new O(α(s)(4)) term in Z-decay rate leads to a significant stabilization of the perturbative series, to a reduction of the theory uncertainty in the strong coupling constant α(s), as extracted from these measurements, and to a small shift of the central value.
,   The reduced transition probability B(E2;0(gs)(+)→2(1)(+)) for (28)S was obtained experimentally using Coulomb excitation at 53 MeV/nucleon. The resultant B(E2) value 181(31) e(2)fm(4) is smaller than the expectation based on empirical B(E2) systematics. The double ratio |M(n)/M(p)|/(N/Z) of the 0(gs)(+)→2(1)(+) transition in (28)S was determined to be 1.9(2) by evaluating the M(n) value from the known B(E2) value of the mirror nucleus (28)Mg, showing the hindrance of proton collectivity relative to that of neutrons. These results indicate the emergence of the magic number Z=16 in the |T(z)|=2 nucleus (28)S.
,   Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are produced by rare types of massive stellar explosion. Their rapidly fading afterglows are often bright enough at optical wavelengths that they are detectable at cosmological distances. Hitherto, the highest known redshift for a GRB was z = 6.7 (ref. 1), for GRB 080913, and for a galaxy was z = 6.96 (ref. 2). Here we report observations of GRB 090423 and the near-infrared spectroscopic measurement of its redshift, z = 8.1(-0.3)(+0.1). This burst happened when the Universe was only about 4 per cent of its current age. Its properties are similar to those of GRBs observed at low/intermediate redshifts, suggesting that the mechanisms and progenitors that gave rise to this burst about 600,000,000 years after the Big Bang are not markedly different from those producing GRBs about 10,000,000,000 years later.
,   We study the mode-coupling theory for the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang equation in the strong-coupling regime, focusing on the long time properties. By a saddle point analysis of the mode-coupling equations, we derive exact results for the correlation function in the long-time limit-a limit that is hard to study using simulations. The correlation function at wave vector k in dimension d is found to behave asymptotically at time t as C(k,t) approximately A/k(d+4-2z)(Btk(z))(gamma/z)exp[-(Btk(z))(1/z)], with gamma=(d-1)/2, A a determined constant, and B a scale factor.
,   Velopharyngeal incompetence occurs in approximately 25% of cases after primary palatoplasty. There is controversy regarding the best method of surgical management of velopharyngeal incompetence. Between 1986 and 1993, 13 children with velopharyngeal incompetence after primary palatoplasty underwent Furlow Z-plasty repair. All children were assessed by a speech therapist and with videofluoroscopy pre- and postoperatively. The Furlow Z-plasty was performed at a mean age of 7.8 years (range, 4-12 years). Eleven children achieved normal resonance, and all 13 demonstrated improved velopharyngeal function on videofluoroscopy. The Furlow Z-plasty is effective treatment for children with velopharyngeal incompetence.
,   The versatility of the double-Z rhomboid plasty is demonstrated in the closure of excisional wounds in the face and extremities following resection of skin tumors. The degree of distortion resulting from the double-Z rhomboid, simple rhomboid, and direct closure are compared in foam rubber models. The original design as described by Cuono is compared with modifications suggested by Katoh. The indications for the double-Z rhomboid repair are reviewed and the technical aspects to maximize the results are described.
,   Electrospray spectra of various bile acids and other surfactants were obtained using an ion trap instrument. Bile acids and bile acid derivatives such as 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS) self associate to form micelles in a stepwise process. Their spectra show a distinct pattern of aggregation, with ions evenly separated in the m/z space. A new parameter, n/z, can be used to characterize such ions, where n is the number of molecules and z is the charge of the aggregate. The values of z were determined using multi-stage mass spectrometry (MS(n)) and high resolution in the ion trap.
,   To propose a new technique for eliminating the medial epicanthal fold of the Asian upper eyelid.etrospective review of the Z-epicanthoplasty and modified Z-epicanthoplasty procedures performed during 1995 through 1999.ial plastic surgery private practice.r hundred seventy-five Korean American patients from 9 midwestern states with type 2 or type 3 medial epicanthal folds. majority of the East Asian population has type 2 or 3 medial epicanthal folds. Most surgeons avoid epicanthoplasty because of the fear of visible scar formation. Modified Z-epicanthoplasty is a safe and effective technique for eliminating the epicanthal fold during double-eyelid operations. Scarring of the medial canthal area has not been a problem with this technique. Arch Facial Plast Surg. 2000;2:43-47
,   In the silkworm (Bombyx mori), resistance to the Zhenjiang (China) strain of the densonucleosis virus (DNV-Z) is controlled by the recessive gene nsd-Z (non-susceptible to DNV-Z), which is linked to 7 simple-sequence repeat markers. Marker-assisted evaluation and selection of DNV-Z-resistant silkworms were used for predicting DNV-resistance in backcrossed animals. A silkworm race was bred using this method, and its economic characteristics were found to be similar to those of commercial silkworm races. These markers will therefore be useful for silkworm breeding programs and in screening for densonucleosis resistance in segregating populations. 
,   Z-curve features are one of the popular features used in exon/intron classification. We showed that although both Z-curve and Fourier approaches are based on detecting 3-periodicity in coding regions, there are significant differences in their spectral formulation. From the spectral formulation of the Z-curve, we obtained three modified sequences that characterize different biological properties. Spectral analysis on the modified sequences showed a much more prominent 3-periodicity peak in coding regions than the Fourier approach. For long sequences, prominent peaks at 2Pi/3 are observed at coding regions, whereas for short sequences, clearly discernible peaks are still visible. Better classification can be obtained using spectral features derived from the modified sequences.
,   Indirect immunofluorescence shows that antibodies specific for the Z conformation of DNA bind to D. melanogaster polytene chromosomes in a specific and reproducible pattern. In our acetic-acid-fixed preparations, the binding is predominantly to interband regions, to puffs, and to some specific bands. As might be expected, the pattern of binding can be affected by cytological procedures. Bands and interbands show significant differences in their susceptibility to these procedures. Although further study is needed, our studies give no evidence that acetic acid treatment of intact cells is capable of causing conversion of B-form and Z-form DNAs. Instead, the experiments suggest that the Z conformation is preferentially available in interbands and a few other chromosome regions.
,   Nikkomycin Z inhibits chitin synthase in vitro but does not exhibit antifungal activity against many pathogens. Assays of chitin synthase isozymes and growth assays with isozyme mutants were used to demonstrate that nikkomycin Z is a selective inhibitor of chitin synthase 3. The resistance of chitin synthase 2 to nikkomycin Z in vitro is likely responsible for the poor activity of this antibiotic against Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
,   Six triterpenoid acids were isolated from the stems of KADSURA LONGIPEDUNCULATA, collected in Kuangxi province. Four of them were new compounds and assigned as (24 Z)-3-oxo-12alpha-acetoxylanosta-8,24-dien-26-oic acid ( 1), (24 Z)-3-oxo-12alpha-hydroxylanosta-8,24-dien-26-oic acid ( 2), (24 Z)-3-oxo-14(13-->12) ABEO-lanosta-8,13(18),24-trien-26-oic acid ( 3), and (24 Z)-3-oxo-13beta-hydroxy-14(13-->12) ABEO-lanosta-8,24-dien-26-oic acid ( 4). Compounds 3 and 4 were named neokadsuranic acids B and C, respectively.
,   Trx-z is a chloroplastic thioredoxin, exhibiting a usual WCGPC active site, but whose biochemical properties are unknown. We demonstrate here that Trx-z supports the activity of several plastidial antioxidant enzymes, such as thiol-peroxidases and methionine sulfoxide reductases, using electrons provided by ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase. Its disulfide reductase activity requires the presence of both active site cysteines forming a catalytic disulfide bridge with a midpoint redox potential of -251 mV at pH7. These in vitro biochemical data suggest that, besides its decisive role in the regulation of plastidial transcription, Trx-z might also be involved in stress response.
,   Using Coulomb drag as a probe, we explore the excitonic phase transition in quantum Hall bilayers at nu(T) = 1 as a function of Zeeman energy E(Z). The critical layer separation (d/l)(c) for exciton condensation initially increases rapidly with E(Z), but then reaches a maximum and begins a gentle decline. At high E(Z), where both the excitonic phase at small d/l and the compressible phase at large d/l are fully spin polarized, we find that the width of the transition, as a function of d/l, is much larger than at small E(Z) and persists in the limit of zero temperature. We discuss these results in the context of two models in which the system contains a mixture of the two fluids.
,   We present the universal features of the hitting probability Q(x,L), the probability that a generic stochastic process starting at x and evolving in a box [0, L] hits the upper boundary L before hitting the lower boundary at 0. For a generic self-affine process, we show that Q(x,L)=Q(z=x/L) has a scaling Q(z) approximately z;{phi} as z-->0, where phi=theta/H, H, and theta being the Hurst and persistence exponent of the process, respectively. This result is verified in several exact calculations, including when the process represents the position of a particle diffusing in a disordered potential. We also provide numerical support for our analytical results.
,   Controlling cellular alignment is critical in engineering intestines with desired structure and function. Although previous studies have examined the directional alignment of cells on the surface (x-y plane) of parallel fibers, quantitative analysis of the cellular alignment inside implanted scaffolds with oriented fibers has not been reported. This study examined the cellular alignment in the x-z and y-z planes of scaffolds made with two layers of orthogonally oriented fibers. The cellular orientation inside implanted scaffolds was evaluated with immunofluorescence. Quantitative analysis of coherency between cell orientation and fiber direction confirmed that cells aligned along the fibers not only on the surface (x-y plane) but also inside the scaffolds (x-z & y-z planes). Our study demonstrated that two layers of orthogonally aligned scaffolds can generate the histological organization of cells similar to that of intestinal circular and longitudinal smooth muscle. 
,   The dynamics of rat brain energy phosphates and intracellular pH was studied during the 1st hour after bilateral focal compression ischemia. The increased inorganic phosphate signal intensity was observed simultaneously with the unchanged pH and phosphocreatine level. Brain energy status was evaluated by the ATP level and by the Z-index (the averaged coefficients of correlation between NMR measured brain phosphates in a given group of animals). Reversible changes of both ATP and Z were observed after 16-28 min of recovery (20% of decrease and 200% of increase, respectively). Contrary to ATP the Z-value showed a significant increase in comparison with a corresponding intact value and with control (sham-operated animals). The Z-index is proposed as a sensitive criteria of brain energy status.
,   Pilates exercises have been shown beneficial impact on physical, physiological, and mental characteristics of human beings. In this paper, Z-number based fuzzy approach is applied for modeling the effect of Pilates exercises on motivation, attention, anxiety, and educational achievement. The measuring of psychological parameters is performed using internationally recognized instruments: Academic Motivation Scale (AMS), Test of Attention (D2 Test), and Spielberger's Anxiety Test completed by students. The GPA of students was used as the measure of educational achievement. Application of Z-information modeling allows us to increase precision and reliability of data processing results in the presence of uncertainty of input data created from completed questionnaires. The basic steps of Z-number based modeling with numerical solutions are presented. 
,   The chemical potentials for two series of [PtCl(NCN-Z-4)] (NCN=2,6-bis[(dimethylamino)methyl]phenyl, Z=H, CHO, COOH, NH2, OH, NO2, SiMe3, I, t-Bu) and [PtCl(NCN-4-CHN-C6H4-Z'-4')] (Z'=NMe2, Me, H, Cl, CN) were calculated. The energies of platinum d orbitals were calculated by NBO analysis. Good correlations were obtained between (195)Pt chemical shifts and the spectral parameters obtained from the energies of electronic transitions between Pt d orbitals in these complexes. The correlations between (195)Pt chemical shifts and the chemical potentials were also good. The correlations were discussed based on Ramsey's equation. 
,   The identification of carpronium chloride and a metabolite in human urine has been performed by means of field desorption mass spectrometry using deuterium labelling. Essential points in this study are the simultaneous administration of a deuterium labelled drug ([2H9]carpronium chloride), a purification procedure by ion pair extraction with an iodine reagent, and the use of paper electrophoresis to examine the degree of clean-up. The field desorption mass spectra of the purified extracts obtained from sample urine gave a characteristic pattern resulting from the carpronium cation (m/z 160, m/z 169) and a metabolite of the N-(3-carbohydroxypropyl)trimethyl ammonium cation (m/z 146, m/z 155).
,   The scenario of light gluinos and light sbottoms was advocated to explain the discrepancy between the measured and theoretical production of b quarks at the Tevatron. This scenario will have model-independent predictions for Z-->qqgg at the Z0 pole, and e(+)e(-)-->qqgg at LEPII. We show that the data for Z-->qqg*-->qqbb; at LEPI cannot constrain the scenario, because the ratio Gamma(Z-->qqgg)/Gamma(Z-->qqg*-->qqbb)=0.15-0.04 for m(g)=12-16 GeV is smaller than the uncertainty of the data. However, at LEPII the ratio sigma(e(+)e(-)-->qqgg)/sigma(e(+)e(-)-->qqg*-->qqbb) approximately 0.4-0.2 for m(g)=12-16 GeV, which may give an observable excess in qqbb events; especially, the 4b events.
,   An efficient preparation of pure ethyl Z- and E-alpha,alpha-difluoro-4-phenyl-3-butenoate 1a and 1b together with the corresponding acids 2a and 2b is described. The procedures involve stereocontrolled additions of *CF2CO2Et to phenylacetylene or beta-bromostyrene. Compound 1a is easily obtained by addition of *CF2CO2Et to phenylacetylene via a mechanism where the stereochemistry is controlled by an electron-transfer process to produce predominantly the Z vinyl anion. The product 1b is obtained by *CF2CO2Et addition-elimination to Z- or E-beta-bromostyrenes via a mechanism where the stereochemistry is controlled by steric factors in the conformational equilibration of the intermediates.
,   Flash vacuum pyrolysis of bicyclo[3.2.0]hept-6-en-2-one (1) in the source chamber of a UV photoelectron (PE) spectrometer using a CW CO2 laser as a directed heat source facilitated an electrocyclic ring expansion to yield the transient species cyclohepta-2(Z),4(E)-dien-1-one (2), the PE spectrum of which was compared to that of an authentic sample of cyclohepta-2(Z),4(Z)-dien-1-one (4) and confirmed a conrotatory ring opening of 1 that obeys the Woodward-Hoffmann rules.
,   The hydrozirconation reaction of 1-alkynyl sulfoxides or sulfones with Cp2Zr(H)Cl in THF at room temperature predominantly gave Z-beta-zirconated vinyl sulfoxides or sulfones with excellent regioselectivity. Compared with 1-alkynyl sulfoxides, the hydrozirconation reaction of 1-alkynyl sulfones exhibits great synthetic potential, leading to the efficient preparation of Z-beta-halovinyl sulfones, Z-beta-sulfonyl alpha,beta-unsaturated ketones, and Z-beta-alkynyl vinyl sulfones. Although the reaction mechanisms are still not clear, the neighboring group participation of the sulfinyl or sulfonyl group may be playing an important role in this unique hydrozirconation reaction.
,   The postgenomic era is all about learning about function by comparing genomic sequences within and between organisms. This review describes an approach that applies detailed thermodynamic information, as opposed to sequence motif searches, to analyze genomes (thermogenomics) for the occurrence of sequences with the potential to form left-handed Z-DNA and those that bind the eukaryotic nuclear factor I (NFI) transcriptional regulators. Such thermogenomic strategies allow us to address the questions of whether Z-DNA forming sequences can potentially function in regulating transcription of eukaryotic genes and how such function may emerge relative to other GC-rich elements, such as NFI recognition sites, to become a transcriptional coactivator.
,   We present what are believed to be the first images obtained with a far-field high-resolution scanning surface-plasmon microscope in an aqueous medium. Measurements of V(z), the output response of the microscope, versus defocus z give a signature of the surface-plasmon propagation. V(z) is strongly conditioned by the laser beam diameter and the objective's numerical aperture, and we show how the operating mode (in air and in water) must be chosen to maximize the surface-plasmon field and to minimize diffraction (edge) effects.
,   Secondary ion mass spectra and images were obtained from animal tissue samples using less than 10(13) primary ions/cm2. The mass spectra showed abundant peaks at m/z 184 and m/z 86. Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) was used to identify the source of these ions as phosphocholine. Secondary ion images obtained using MS/MS were used to show that m/z 86 is an abundant gas-phase fragment ion derived from m/z 184. These results are discussed in terms of the physiology of the samples investigated.
,   Crystallization of macromolecules for structural studies has long been a hit-or-miss process. The crystallization of hexanucleotides as Z-DNA was studied, and it was shown that the cation concentration for crystal formation could be predicted from solvation free energy (SFE) calculations. Solution studies on the conformation and solubilities of the hexanucleotides showed that a critical concentration of the DNA in the Z-conformation must be present in solution to effect crystallization. The SFE calculations therefore predict the propensity of the hexanucleotides to adopt the left-handed conformation and the driving force required to reach this critical concentration relative to the intrinsic solubility of Z-DNA for crystallization.
,   The potential utility of Zymomonas mobilis as an organism for the commercial production of ethanol would be greatly enhanced by the addition of foreign genes which expand its range of fermentable substrates. We tested various plasmids and mobilizing factors for their ability to act as vectors and introduce foreign genes into Z. mobilis CP4. Plasmid pGC91.14, a derivative of RP1, was found to be transferred from Escherichia coli to Z. mobilis at a higher frequency than previously reported for any other plasmids. Both tetracycline resistance and the lactose operon from this plasmid were expressed in Z. mobilis CP4. Plasmid pGC91.14 was stably maintained in Z. mobilis at 30 degrees C but rapidly lost at 37 degrees C.
,   Let Z be an algebraic p cycle homologous to zero in an algebraic complex manifold V. Associated to Z is a linear function nu on holomorphic (2p + 1)-forms on V, modulo periods, that vanishes if Z is algebraically equivalent to zero in V. I give a formula for nu for the case of V the jacobian of an algebraic curve C and Z=C - C' (C' = "inverse" of C') in terms of iterated integrals of holomorphic 1-forms on C. If C is the degree 4 Fermat curve, I use this formula to show that C - C' is not algebraically equivalent to zero.
,   [This retracts the article DOI: 10.1007/s12298-012-0157-z.]. 
,   Spectroscopic methods combined with density functional calculations are used to develop a detailed bonding description of the mu(4)-sulfide bridged tetranuclear Cu(Z) cluster in N(2)O reductase. The ground state of Cu(Z) has the 1Cu(II)/3Cu(I) configuration. The single electron hole dominantly resides on one Cu atom (Cu(I)) and partially delocalizes onto a second Cu atom (Cu(II)) via a Cu(I)-S-Cu(II) sigma/sigma superexchange pathway which is manifested by a Cu(II) --> Cu(I) intervalence transfer transition in absorption. The observed excited-state spectral features of Cu(Z) are dominated by the S --> Cu(I) charge-transfer transitions and Cu(I) based d-d transitions. The intensity pattern of individual S --> Cu(I) charge-transfer transitions reflects different bonding interactions of the sulfur valence orbitals with the four Cu's in the Cu(Z) cluster, which are consistent with the individual Cu-S force constants obtained from a normal coordinate analysis of the Cu(Z) resonance Raman frequencies and profiles. The Cu(I) d orbital splitting pattern correlates with its distorted T-shaped ligand field geometry and accounts for the observed low g( parallel ) value of Cu(Z) in EPR. The dominantly localized electronic structure description of the Cu(Z) site results from interactions of Cu(II) with the two additional Cu's of the cluster (Cu(III)/Cu(IV)), where the Cu-Cu electrostatic interactions lead to hole localization with no metal-metal bonding. The substrate binding edge of Cu(Z) has a dominantly oxidized Cu(I) and a dominantly reduced Cu(IV). The electronic structure description of Cu(Z) provides a strategy to overcome the reaction barrier of N(2)O reduction at this Cu(I)/Cu(IV) edge by simultaneous two-electron transfer to N(2)O in a bridged binding mode. One electron can be donated directly from Cu(IV) and the other from Cu(II) through the Cu(II)-S-Cu(I) sigma/sigma superexchange pathway. A frontier orbital scheme provides molecular insight into the catalytic mechanism of N(2)O reduction by the Cu(Z) cluster.
,   A new class of pi-conjugated macromolecule, poly(p-phenylenephosphaalkene) (PPP), is reported. PPPs are phosphorus analogues of the important electronic material poly(p-phenylenevinylene) (PPV) where P=C rather than C=C bonds space phenylene moieties. Specifically, PPPs [-C(6)R(4)-P=C(OSiMe(3))-C(6)R'(4)-C(OSiMe(3))=P-](n)() (1: R = H, R' = Me; 11: R = Me, R' = H) were synthesized by utilizing the Becker reaction of a bifunctional silylphosphine, 1,4-C(6)R(4)[P(SiMe(3))(2)](2), and diacid chloride 1,4-C(6)R'(4)[COCl](2). Several model compounds for PPP are reported. Namely, mono(phosphaalkene)s R-P=C(OSiMe(3))-R' (4: R = Ph, R' = Mes; 7: R = Mes, R' = Ph), C-centered bis(phosphaalkene)s R-P=C(OSiMe(3))-C(6)R'(4)-C(OSiMe(3))=P-R (5: R = Ph, R' = Me; 8: R = Mes, R' = H), and P-centered bis(phosphaalkene)s R-C(OSiMe(3))=P-C(6)R'(4)-P=C(OSiMe(3))-R (6: R = Mes, R' = H; 10: R = Ph, R' = Me). Remarkably, selective Z-isomer formation (i.e., trans arylene moieties) is observed for PPPs when bulky P-substituents are employed while E/Z-mixtures are otherwise obtained. X-ray crystal structures of Z-7, Z,Z-8, and Z,Z-10 suggest moderate pi-conjugation. The twist angles between the P=C plane and unsubstituted arenes are 16 degrees -26 degrees , while those between the P=C plane and methyl-substituted arenes are 59 degrees -67 degrees . The colored PPPs and their model compounds were studied by UV/vis spectroscopy, and the results are consistent with extended pi-conjugation. Specifically, weakly emissive polymer E/Z-1 (lambda(max) = 338 nm) shows a red shift in its absorbance from model E/Z-4 (lambda(max) = 310 nm), while a much larger red shift is observed for Z-11 (lambda(max) = 394 nm) over Z-7 (lambda(max) = 324 nm).
,   Perfluorinated acids have received increasing scientific attention due to their widespread global distribution, environmental persistence and bioaccumulation in wildlife and humans. For perfluorohexane sulfonate (PFHxS, C(6)F(13)SO(3) (-), m/z 399), all existing human data have been generated using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and its most sensitive tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) transitions (m/z 399/80 [SO(3)](-) or m/z 399/99 [SO(3)F](-)), but this may be problematic because of co-eluting endogenous steroid sulfates that share common fragmentation pathways. We examined the magnitude of over-reporting for PFHxS in pregnant women (n = 29), and in pooled serum of males, non-pregnant and pregnant females (n = 3, 100 samples per pool), by comparing m/z 399/80 and 399/99 data with an interference-free transition, m/z 399/119. PFHxS concentrations in pregnant women determined using m/z 399/80 and 399/99 (p < 0.05), but not m/z 399/119, were positively correlated to the response of the steroid sulfates. This led to an average overestimation of PFHxS by 1.5- and 4.7-fold, using m/z 399/80 and 399/99, respectively, and validated the use of m/z 399/119 for the first time. The interferences were a problem in all human serum samples, and analysis of pooled serum revealed statistically significant over-reporting by m/z 399/80 and 399/99 for pregnant women > non-pregnant women > men. The magnitude of over-reporting here represents a worst-case scenario, but the extent to which the published literature values are biased is unknown due to limited details of methods in existing reports. Instead of using the less sensitive m/z 399/119 transition, we showed that an alternative selection of column and mobile phase can allow for sufficient chromatographic separation of the interferences. In conclusion, it was shown that routine analytical methods are prone to systematically overestimating PFHxS concentrations in serum of men or women, but that this can be avoided by alternative chromatographic steps or MS/MS transitions.
,   1. The metabolisms of (N-[3-[3-(piperidinomethyl)-phenoxy]-propyl]-2-(2-hydroxyethyl-1-t hio) acetamide.2-(4-hydroxy benzoyl) benzoate) (Z-300) in rat have been studied. 2. Five metabolites were identified, namely as sulphoxide (SO), sulphone (SO2), phenol (PH), propionic acid (PA) and thioglycolic acid (TH) derivatives. Furthermore, two metabolites, M1 and M2, were proposed as PH conjugated to sulphate and glucuronic acid respectively. 3. There were several metabolites in the plasma samples after oral administration of 14C-Z-300. The main metabolites were PH (mainly existing as the conjugates), PA and SO, and Z-300 was present as <10% of plasma radioactivity. SO2 and TH were barely detected in plasma. In the urine, the composition of metabolites was similar to that in the plasma. In the bile, the main metabolites were PH (mainly existing as the conjugates) and SO, and very little Z-300 was detected. In the faeces, the main compounds were Z-300 and TH, and very little SO. 4. During in vitro metabolism experiments, Z-300 was metabolized mainly in the liver, and a little in the kidney and lung. PH or its conjugates were produced little on the in vitro metabolism; this was different from that found in the in vivo experiment. The metabolism of Z-300 to SO appeared to be catalysed by cytochrome P450 rather than the flavin-containing monooxygenase. Both hepatic clearance calculated from the in vitro metabolism experiment (28.9 ml/min/kg) and from the liver perfusion metabolism experiment (33.2 ml/min/kg) were lower than the total clearance from the in vivo experiment (119 ml/min/kg). 5. After administration of 14C-SO into the caecum of rat, SO was converted to Z-300 and excreted in the faeces. 14C-SO was reduced by incubation for 4 h within the caecal content of rat under an anaerobic condition in vitro. The results suggest that SO was reduced to Z-300 by gut flora in the lower intestine.
,   The Z- and E-isomers of fluoromethylenecyclopropane analogues 11a-d and 12a-d were synthesized, and their antiviral activities were evaluated. The purine (Z,E)-methylenecyclopropane carboxylates 13 and 24 were selectively fluorinated using lithium diisopropylamide, LiCl, and N-fluorobenzenesulfonimide to give (Z,E)-fluoroesters 22 and 25. Reduction with LiBH(4) or diisobutylaluminum hydride gave after chromatographic separation Z-isomers 11a and 11e and E-isomers 12a and 12e. The O-demethylation of 11e and 12e afforded guanine analogues 11b and 12b. Fluorination of (Z,E)-cytosine and thymine esters 15 and 16 afforded (Z,E)-fluoroesters 26 and 27, which were resolved before the reduction to analogues 11c and 11d and 12c and 12d. Adenine Z-isomer 11a was the most effective against Towne and AD169 strains of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV, EC(50) 3.6 and 6.0 microM, respectively), but it was less effective against murine virus (MCMV, EC(50) 69 microM). Thymine Z-isomer 11d was effective against HSV-1 in BSC-1 cells (ELISA, EC(50) 2.5 microM) but inactive against HSV-1 or HSV-2 in Vero or HFF cells. All of the analogues with the exception of 12d were effective at least in one of the assays against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in Daudi or H-1 cells in a micromolar or submicromolar range. Cytosine and thymine Z-isomers 11c and 11d were active against varicella zoster virus (VZV) with EC(50) 0.62 microM. Adenine Z- and E-isomers 11a and 12a were effective against HIV-1 in MT-2 or MT-4 cells with EC(50) 12-22 and 2.3-7.6 microM, respectively, whereas only 12a was effective against hepatitis B virus (HBV) with EC(50) 15 microM. Analogues 11a and 12a were weak substrates for adenosine deaminase.
,   Magnitudes of the p(Z)-π(Ar/Nap) conjugation were evaluated for 1-(arylchalcogena)naphthalenes (1-(ArZ)Nap, 1-(p-YC(6)H(4)Z)C(10)H(7); 1 (Z = Te), 2 (Se), 3 (S) and 4 (O)). Structures of 1 were determined by X-ray analysis for Y = NMe(2) (b), OMe (c) and CN (i). For 1b and 1c that have electron donating Y, the Z-C(Ar) bond is located on the naphthyl plane with Z-C(Nap) being perpendicular to the aryl plane, which we define as (B: pd). On the other hand, the structure of 1i with electron donating Y is (A: pl), of which Z-C(Ar) is placed almost perpendicular to the naphthyl plane with Z-C(Nap) being located on the aryl plane. Each structure of 1a (Y = H), 1b, 1c, 1d (Me), 1e (F), 1f (Cl), 1g (Br), 1h (COOEt), 1i and 1j (NO(2)) was determined by NMR in chloroform-d. Structures of 1 in the solutions are (B: pd) for b, c and e that have electron donating Y, (A: pl) for f-j with electron accepting Y, and in equilibrium between (B: pd) and (A: pl) for a and d of which Y are rather neutral. The results for 2-4 are very similar to those of 1 in solutions. Quantum chemical calculations were performed on 1-4 with Y of a, b' (NH(2)), d, f and j. Magnitudes of the p(Z)-π(Ar/Nap) conjugation were well-evaluated by NBO (natural bond orbital) analysis. The values were 12.6 and 13.0 kcal mol(-1) for the typical forms of (A: pl) and (B: pd) of 1a, respectively, resulting in a much smaller energy difference between the two (0.4 kcal mol(-1)), which should correspond to the observed result. It is well-demonstrated that the p(Te)-π(Ar/Nap) conjugation operates effectively in 1, although the magnitudes increase in the order of Z = Te < Se < S < O. Thermal effect of the Gibbs free energies is shown to play an important role in the energy profiles of 1a-4a.
,   Linkage data, using the polymorphic markers 52A (DXS51), F9, 4D-8 (DXS98), and St14 (DXS52), are presented from 14 fragile X pedigrees and from 7 normal pedigrees derived from the collection of the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humaine. A multipoint linkage analysis indicates that the most probable order of these four loci in normal families is DXS51-F9-DXS98-DXS52. Recombination frequencies (theta) corresponding to maximum LOD scores (Z) were obtained by two-point linkage analysis for a number of linkage groups, including: DXS51-F9 (Z = 5.94, theta = 0.03), F9-DXS98 (Z = 0.51, theta = 0.26), F9-DXS52 (Z = 0.84, theta = 0.27), and DXS98-DXS52 (Z = 0.32, theta = 0.20). A multipoint linkage analysis of these loci, including the fragile X locus, was also performed for the fragile X population and the data support the relative order (DSX51, F9, DXS98)-FRAXA-DXS52. Recombination frequencies and maximum LOD scores, which again were derived from two-point linkage analyses, were obtained for the linkage groups DXS51-F9 (Z = 9.96, theta = 0) and F9-DXS52 (Z = 0.07, theta = 0.45) as well as for the groups DXS51-FRAXA (Z = 2.42, theta = 0.15), F9-FRAXA (Z = 1.30, theta = 0.18), DXS98-FRAXA (Z = 0.05, theta = 0.36), and DXS52-FRAXA (Z = 2.42, theta = 0.15). The linkage data was further tested for the presence of genetic heterogeneity both within and between the fragile X and normal families for the intervals DXS51-F9, F9-DXS52, F9-FRAXA, and DXS52-FRAXA using a modification of the A test. Except for the interval F9-FRAXA (P less than 0.10) there was no evidence of genetic heterogeneity for each of the various linkage groups examined. The heterogeneity detected for the interval F9-FRAXA, however, was most likely due to one family (Fx-28) that displayed very tight linkage between these two loci.
,   A series of analogues of the analgesic dipeptide derivative H-Lys-Trp(NPS)-OMe has been designed to determine the influence of the (2-nitrophenyl)sulfenyl (NPS) moiety on the activity. The syntheses and antinociceptive effects of these analogues of general formula H-Lys-Trp(R)-OMe [R = phenylsulfenyl (PS) (9); R = (2-carbomethyoxyphenyl)sulfenyl (CmPS) (10); R = (4-nitrophenyl)sulfenyl (pNPS) (11); R = (2,4-dinitrophenyl)sulfenyl (DNPS) (12); R = [2-(acetylamino)-2-carbomethoxyethyl]sulfenyl (AacCmES) (13); R = [2-(acetylamino)phenyl]sulfenyl (AacPS) (17); R = tert-butylsulfenyl (t-BuS) (23); R = (2-carbomethoxyethyl)sulfenyl (CmES) (24)] are described. Reaction of Z-Lys(Z)-Trp-OMe (3) with PS-, CmPS-, pNPS-, DNPS-, and AacCmES-Cl afforded the corresponding 2-(sulfenyl)tryptophan derivatives, which on treatment with boron-tris(trifluoroacetate)/trifluoroacetic acid or trimethylsilyl iodide in acetonitrile (Me3SiI/CH3CN) provided 9-13, respectively. Sulfenylation of 3 with NPS-Cl gave Z-Lys(Z)-Trp(NPS)-OMe, which, on catalytic hydrogenation of the nitro group using 10% Pd/C followed by acetylation of the resulting amino function and removal of the protecting Z groups, gave 17. Condensation of 2-(tert-butylsulfenyl)- and 2-[(2-carbomethoxyethyl)sulfenyl]tryptophan methyl ester, obtained by reaction of methyl 3a-hydroxy-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydropyrrolo[2,3-b]indole-2-carboxyla te with the corresponding thiol, with Z-Lys(Z)-OSu afforded Z-Lys(Z)-Trp(t-BuS)-OMe and Z-Lys(Z)-Trp(CmES)-OMe, which on treatment with Me3SiI/CH3CN provided 23 and 24, respectively. Intracerebroventricular administration of 10 elicited a naloxone-reversible antinociceptive effect in mice similar to that of H-Lys-Trp(NPS)-OMe. No analgesia was however found with the phenylsulfenyl or acyclic sulfenyl substituted dipeptides 9, 11, and 17 or 13, 23, and 24. The Trp(DNPS)-containing analogue was neurotoxic. Structure-activity studies indicate that the role of the NPS and CmPS moieties could be related to the adoption of a preferential active conformation.
,   Z-360 is an orally active cholecystokinin-2 (CCK2)/gastrin receptor antagonist currently under development as a therapeutic drug for pancreatic cancer. It was previously reported that Z-360 treatment in combination with gemcitabine prolonged the survival period in a lethal pancreatic cancer xenograft model in mice. In a phase Ib/IIa clinical study, Z-360 treatment displayed a trend of reduced pain in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine including analgesics such as opioids. Here, we investigated the mechanism of analgesic action of Z-360 in a severe cancer-induced pain model in mice, which is considered to be opioid-resistant, by examining ephrin B1 gene expression, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR2B subunit phosphorylation, and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) production.a mouse model of cancer-induced pain, ephrin B1 gene expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and the phosphorylation of NR2B in the spinal cord were induced. Z-360 treatment inhibited both ephrin B1 gene expression and the phosphorylation of NR2B. In addition, IL-1β production increased in the cancer-inoculated hind paw of mice, but could be suppressed by treatment with Z-360. Moreover, we observed that the CCK1 receptor antagonist devazepide similarly suppressed up-regulation of ephrin B1 gene expression and IL-1β production, and that the intraperitoneal injection of sulfated CCK-8 induced the production of IL-1β in the cancer-inoculated region.have identified a novel pain cascade, in which IL-1β production in cancer-inoculated regions induces ephrin B1 gene expression in DRGs and then ephrin B1 enhances the tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B via Eph B receptor in the spinal cord. Notably, Z-360 relieves cancer-induced pain by preventing this pain cascade through the suppression of IL-1β production, likely via the blockade of CCK1 receptor. The pre-clinical results presented here support the analgesic action of Z-360 in pancreatic cancer patients with severe, opioid-resistant pain. Pre-clinical and clinical results have demonstrated that Z-360 combined with gemcitabine represents a promising pancreatic cancer therapy approach with characteristic analgesic effects in addition to the prolongation of survival.
,   An efficient method for the isolation of mutant antigen-presenting cell (APC) lines is described. When mixtures of transfectant APC lines TA beta z (that express A beta z/A alpha d MHC class II molecules) and hypothetical variant APC lines TA beta d (that express A beta d/A alpha d class II molecules) were cultured with and selected by autoreactive A beta z/A alpha d-restricted T cell clones, the percentage of TA beta d APC lines increased from less than 1% of the original APC mixtures to almost 100% after several cycles of selection. This increase of hypothetical variant was shown to be due to the formation of aggregates of wild-type TA beta z APC lines with A beta z/A alpha d-restricted autoreactive T cell clones that results in the inhibition of proliferation and probably killing of TA beta z APC lines. Based on this, ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-treated TA beta z APC lines or B-B hybridoma APC lines MW4 (that express A beta z/A alpha d and A beta z/A alpha z class II molecules) were cultured with and selected by A beta z/A alpha d-restricted autoreactive T cell clones to obtain mutant APC lines that escaped the recognition by T cell clones. After cloning, about 43% of clones examined lost the ability to stimulate T cell clones with concomitant loss of class II molecule expression. Less than 1% showed loss of stimulatory activity against T cell clones in spite of the expression of normal amounts of class II molecules. Initial analysis revealed that they include APC mutant lines with (1) altered MHC class II sequences, (2) loss of adhesion molecule expression and (3) possible impairment of the peptide loading. The method described here may provide a variety of mutant APC lines that are useful for the analysis of antigen processing and presentation pathways as well as of class II structure for T cell stimulation.
,   The Z variant (Glu342Lys) of α(1)-antitrypsin (AT) polymerizes and accumulates in the hepatocyte endoplasmic reticulum (ER) predisposing to neonatal hepatitis and liver cirrhosis. The resultant secretory defect leaves the lungs vulnerable to elastolysis and early-onset emphysema. Our aim in this study was to evaluate the effect of targeting strand 4a (s4A) as a strategy to inhibit polymerization and restore plasma secretion.293 cells and HepG2 cells were transfected with Z-AT (Z-AT cells) or control M-AT (M-AT cells). The effect of Ac-TTAI-NH(2) (4M), Ac-FLEAIG-NH(2) (6M), and Ac-SEAAASTAVVIA-NH(2) (12M) on preventing and reversing intracellular Z-AT polymers and secretion of AT was evaluated by pulse-chase/immunoprecipitation, ELISA, and immunoblot with a polymer-specific antibody (ATZII). The ER overload response was assessed by RT-PCR for PERK, calnexin, and RGS16, and ELISA for NF-κB, IL-6, and IL-8. peptides prevented the intracellular accumulation of Z-AT (4M>6M>12M) in comparison with control peptides, with detection of the AT-Inhibitor complex in inclusion bodies. In so doing, 4M also significantly increased the concentration of secreted Z-AT and the elastase inhibitory activity. Furthermore, the 4M peptide was able to reverse the intracellular aggregation of Z-AT. The ER accumulation of Z-AT was shown to induce PERK-dependent NF-κB, IL-6, IL-8, and RGS16 and calnexin; all of which could be abrogated effectively by 4M. 4M had no effect on apoptosis or cell viability.se findings are the first evidence that targeting s4A can prevent the cellular accumulation and deleterious effects of Z-AT and restore its plasma concentrations. As such, this is a major step towards treatment of patients with Z-AT-related disease.
,   On attempting photochemically induced electrocyclizations of the previously reported 1,6-bismethoxycarbonyl- or 1,6-bistrimethylsilyl-substituted ring-attached (E,Z,E)-1,3,5-hexatrienes 4 b, 4 c and 5 b, 5 c, equilibrium mixtures of the starting materials and their diastereomers, the corresponding (E,Z,Z)-hexatrienes 4 b, 4 c and 5 b, 5 c were obtained. The desired trans-disubstituted ring-annelated cyclohexadienes 9 b and 10 b were formed by subsequent thermal 6pi-electrocyclization of the (E,Z,Z)-hexatrienes 4 b and 5 b in good yields (77-83 %). Upon treating the bissilyl-substituted hexatrienes (E,Z,E)-5 c or (E,Z,Z)-5 c under the same conditions, 6pi-electrocyclizations did occur, but the primary products immediately isomerized to a large extent, and mixtures of the cyclohexane-annelated cyclohexadienes 10 c-12 c along with the dehydrogenation products 13, 14 c were formed. When the bismethoxycarbonyl-substituted hexatriene (E,Z,E)- 5 b was irradiated for an extended period of time (4.5 h), the gradual formation of the oxabicyclo[3.2.1]octa-2,6-diene 17 b by a formal intramolecular hetero-Diels-Alder reaction was observed and 17 b could be isolated in up to 69 % yield. To explore the scope of this new photochemical reaction, the new ring-attached (E,Z,E)-hexatrienes 4 a, 5 a and 6 b were synthesized by twofold Heck reactions from 1,2-dibromocycloalkenes 1-3 (59-66 %). While irridiation of the cyclopentene-attached 1,3,5-hexatrienes only led to decomposition, the cyclohexene- and cycloheptene-attached hexatrienes gave the hetero-Diels-Alder products or other photoproducts depending on the size of the cycloalkene moiety and the nature of the alkoxycarbonyl substituents at the vinyl termini. The photoreaction products 17 b and 18 b which are bicyclic acetals, underwent cleavage upon treatment with a Lewis acid such as Me(3)SiOTf to give the ring-annelated methoxycarbonyl-substituted troponecarboxylates 21 b and 22 b.
,   Solvent structure and its interactions have been suggested to play a critical role in defining the conformation of polynucleotides and other macromolecules. In this work, we attempt to quantitate solvent effects on the well-studied conformational transition between right-handed B- and left-handed Z-DNA. The solvent-accessible surfaces of the hexamer sequences d(m5CG)3, d(CG)3, d(CA)3, and d(TA)3 were calculated in their B- and Z-DNA conformations. The difference in hydration free energies between the Z and the B conformations (delta delta GH(Z-B] was determined from these surfaces to be -0.494 kcal/mol for C-5 methylated d(CG), 0.228 kcal/mol for unmethylated d(CG), 0.756 kcal/mol for d(CA)-d(TG), and 0.896 kcal/mol for d(TA) dinucleotides. These delta delta GH(Z-B) values were compared to the experimental B- to Z-DNA transition energies of -0.56 kcal/mol that we measured for C-5 methylated d(CG), 0.69-1.30 kcal/mol reported for unmethylated d(CG), 1.32-1.48 kcal/mol reported for d(CA)-d(TG), and 2.3-2.4 kcal/mol for d(TA) dinucleotides. From this comparison, we found that the calculated delta delta GH(Z-B) of these dinucleotides could account for the previous observation that the dinucleotides were ordered as d(m5CG) greater than d(CG) greater than d(CA)-d(TG) greater than d(TA) in stability as Z-DNA. Furthermore, we predicted that one of the primary reasons for the inability of d(TA) sequences to form Z-DNA results from a decrease in exposed hydrophilic surfaces of adjacent base pairs due to the C-5 methyl group of thymine; thus, d(UA) dinucleotides should be more stable as Z-DNA than the analogous d(TA) dinucleotides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   To construct a region-of-interest (ROI) template for Z-score images of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projections (3-D SSP) and to assess whether the ROI template can be a useful tool for evaluation of brain perfusion abnormalities of neurological disorders.constructed the ROI template for Z-score images of 3-D SSP based on the standardized magnetic resonance imaging data of 10 healthy volunteers. We assigned a total of 26 ROIs to Z-score images and superimposed it on Z-score images constructed from the brain perfusion SPECT data of 15 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 10 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who developed Alzheimer's disease within the following 2 years. We then obtained the mean Z-scores of each ROI and examined them to determine whether the hypoperfusion typical of Alzheimer's disease had been demonstrated quantitatively. We also visually inspected the Z-score image of each patient in both groups to determine whether the areas with the highest Z-scores were demonstrated within the ROIs of regions typical of Alzheimer's disease.the patients with Alzheimer's disease, our ROI template quantitatively demonstrated hypoperfusion in regions typical of the disease and the Z-scores were very high. In the MCI patients, the mean Z-scores of the ROI in the posterior cingulated gyrus were the highest among all regions. Visual inspection of the Z-score images of each patient in both groups confirmed that the areas with the highest Z-scores were demonstrated within the ROIs in regions typical of Alzheimer's disease in all cases. of 3-D SSP methods and our ROI template enables automated quantitative evaluation of brain function images over the entire brain surface. In addition, the ROI template may facilitate visual interpretation of functional images of individual patients with neurological disorders.
,   The reactivity of palladium(0) complexes, [Pd(0) (2)(dba-n,n'-Z)(3)] (n,n'-Z=4,4'-F; 4,4'-CF(3); 4,4'-H; 4,4'-MeO) and [Pd(0)(dba-n,n'-Z)(2)] (n,n'-Z=4,4'-CF(3); 4,4'-H; 3,3',5,5'-OMe), used as precursor catalysts with suitable donor ligands (e.g. phosphines, N-heterocyclic carbenes), has been correlated in several palladium(0)-mediated cross-coupling processes. Increasing the electron density on the aryl moiety of the dba-n,n'-Z ligand increases the overall catalytic activity in the majority of these processes. This effect primarily derives from destabilization of the L(n)Pd(0)-eta(2)-dba interaction (in dpi-pi* synergic bonding, n=1 or 2), which ultimately increases the global concentration of catalytically active L(n)Pd(0) available for reaction with aryl halide in the first committed step in the general catalytic cycle(s) (oxidative addition). Decreasing electron density on the aryl moiety of the dba-n,n'-Z ligand stabilizes the Pd(0)-eta(2)-dba interaction, reducing catalytic activity. The specific type of dba-n,n'-Z ligand appears to also play a stabilizing role in the catalytic cycle, preventing Pd agglomeration, and increasing catalyst longevity. A subtle balance therefore exists between the L(n)Pd(0) concentration (and the associated catalytic activity) and catalyst longevity. Changing the type of dba-n,n'-Z ligand controls the concentration of L(n)Pd(0) and the rate of the oxidative addition step, and not other intimate steps within the catalytic cycle(s), for example, transmetallation (or carbopalladation) and reductive elimination. The role of dba-n,n'-Z ligands in Heck arylation is more convoluted and dependent on the alkene substrate employed, although trends have emerged. Changes in the structure of dba-n,n'-Z had a minimal affect on Buchwald-Hartwig aryl amination processes. A secondary Michael reaction of dba-n,n'-Z with amine and/or base effectively lessens its interference in the catalytic cycle.
,   A multicatalytic endopeptidase (ME) with three distinct activities, chymotrypsin-like, cucumisin-like, and trypsin-like, occurred in all rat tissues examined with highest activities in kidney, testes, liver, and spleen; they were assayed with benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Gly-Leu-p-nitroanilide (Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA), benzyloxycarbonyl-Leu-Leu-Glu-2-naphthylamide (Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA), and benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Gly-Arg-2-naphthylamide (Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA), respectively. All three activities were recovered from a single protein band on a polyacrylamide gel after electrophoresis of purified human kidney ME. The native enzyme had a Mr of 650,000, and it consisted of about 5,135 amino acid residues. After denaturation and electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gels kidney ME dissociated into several low Mr components ranging from 23,000 to 33,000. Kidney ME had a pH optimum of 7.6-8.1 with Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA, 7.3 with Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA, and 9.8 with Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA. SDS enhanced chymotrypsin- and cucumisin-like activities by two to three times whereas trypsin-like activity was not enhanced. The specificity constant (kappa cat/Km) of human kidney ME for Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA was 6.7 X 10(3) M-1 S-1; Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-2NA was not hydrolyzed. The specificity constant for Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA was similar to, and for Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA was one half of that for Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA. ME cleaves only the Phe5-Ser6 bond of bradykinin (BK); however, all three ME activities were inhibited by BK. Strong inhibition of ME by albumin suggests that ME is involved in cleavage of larger polypeptides. Antipain and leupeptin almost completely inactivated the trypsin-like activity whereas they had no significant effect on the other two activities. ME is not a metal-loenzyme nor is the serine residue essential for its activities; however, thiol groups are involved. Na+ and K+ inhibited all ME activities. Trypsin-like activity was more sensitive to divalent cations than the other two.
,   To describe growth during initial hospitalization for very small premature infants fed intravenous hyperalimentation, then calcium supplemented 1460 mg/L (36.5 mmol/L) 81 kcal preterm formula.otal of 109 survivors whose <1000 g birth weight was appropriate for gestational age. Mean gestational age was 25.8 weeks.phs were constructed for weight, length, and head circumference by week of age. Mean and +/- 2 SD lines were depicted, with mean intrauterine growth lines for comparison. Separate graphs showed mean weight, length, and head circumference growth by 100 g birth weight cohorts. Mean Z scores based on normal intrauterine growth curves were calculated. Weight Z scores were -.35 at birth, -1.79 at 14 days, and -1.87 at 56 days. Length Z scores were -.32 at birth, -1.29 at 14 days, and -2.24 at 56 days. Head circumference Z scores were 0.01 at birth, -1.26 at 14 days, and -1.06 at 56 days. (Z score = [measured parameter - intrauterine mean for gestation]/intrauterine SD for gestation). Repeated-measures multivariate ANOVAs showed the following significant Z score changes. There were decreases in Z scores for weight, length, and head circumference between birth and 14 days and an additional decrease for length between 14 and 56 days. Head circumference Z scores increased from day 14 to day 56, but remained smaller at day 56 than at day 0. Initially, head circumference Z scores were better than weight or length (possibly because of late head measurement timing). At day 14, the Z scores for weight were lower than those for length and head circumference. At day 56, the head circumference Z scores were higher than those for length or weight.pared with intrauterine standards, weight, length, and head circumference were all worse at day 56 than at birth, although there was relative head-sparing and weight growth paralleled intrauterine growth after 14 days. Length worsened from day 14 to day 56 in spite of the use of calcium and phosphorus-enriched formula.
,   The elm spanworm, Ennomos subsignaria (Hübner), occurs throughout Canada and the eastern United States and can be a destructive forest pest on a wide range of deciduous trees. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and coupled gas chromatographic-electroantennographic detection (GC/EAD) analysis of pheromone gland extracts, in combination with chemical synthesis and field trapping studies have identified (2S, 3R)-2-((Z)-oct-2'-enyl)-3-nonyl oxirane (hereafter Z6-9S, 10R-epoxy-19:H) as the female-produced sex pheromone. Significantly more male moths were captured between 1-100 microg loadings of this compound on red rubber septa in sticky traps compared to blank (unbaited) traps; catches then declined at higher dosages (500-1000 microg). The other isomeric enantiomer, (2R, 3S)-2-[(Z)-oct-2'-enyl]-3-nonyl oxirane (Z6-9R, 10S-epoxy-19:H), at a 10-microg dosage did not elicit trap capture. The likely precursor to the active epoxide, (Z, Z)-6, 9-nonadecadiene ((Z, Z)-6, 9-19:H), identified in virgin female sex pheromone glands, did not elicit trap capture either, and inhibited trap capture when combined with the active epoxide. Racemic 2-((Z)-oct-2'-enyl)-3-nonyl oxirane showed no significant difference in trap capture compared with Z6-9S, 10R-epoxy-19:H, indicating that the opposite enantiomer was not antagonistic. The addition of the EAD-active diene epoxide enantiomers (2S, 3R)-2-[(Z, Z)-octa-2', 5'-dienyl]-3-nonyl oxirane or (2R, 3S)-2-[(Z, Z)-octa-2', 5'-dienyl]-3-nonyl oxirane in admixture with Z6-9S, 10R-epoxy-19:H (at 10% of the latter) did not enhance or decrease trap capture compared to Z6-9S, 10R-epoxy-19:H oxirane alone, so they are not likely pheromone components. This pheromone, impregnated in rubber septa at less than 100-microg dosage, can now be used as a trap bait to develop detection and monitoring strategies for this insect.
,   Expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2) in malignant tumours possesses well-documented prognostic and predictive value. Non-invasive imaging of expression can provide valuable diagnostic information, thereby influencing patient management. Previously, we reported a phage display selection of a small (about 7 kDa) protein, the Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342), which binds HER2 with subnanomolar affinity, and demonstrated the feasibility of targeting of HER2-expressing xenografts using radioiodinated Z(HER2:342). The goal of this study was to develop a method for (99m)Tc labelling of Z(HER2:342) using the MAG3 chelator, which was incorporated into Z(HER2:342) using peptide synthesis, and evaluate the targeting properties of the labelled conjugate.3-Z(HER2:342) was assembled using Fmoc/tBu solid phase peptide synthesis. Biochemical characterisation of the agent was performed using RP-HPLC, ESI-MS, biosensor studies and circular dichroism. A procedure for (99m)Tc labelling in the presence of sodium/potassium tartrate was established. Tumour targeting was evaluated by biodistribution study and gamma camera imaging in xenograft-bearing mice. Biodistribution of (99m)Tc-MAG3-Z(HER2:342) and (125)I-para-iodobenzoate -Z(HER2:342) was compared 6 h p.i.thetic MAG3-Z(HER2:342) possessed an affinity of 0.2 nM for HER2 receptors. The peptide was labelled with (99m)Tc with an efficiency of about 75-80%. Labelled (99m)Tc-MAG3-Z(HER2:342) retained capacity to bind specifically HER2-expressing SKOV-3 cells in vitro. (99m)Tc-MAG3-Z(HER2:342) showed specific tumour targeting with a contrast similar to a radioiodinated analogue in mice bearing LS174T xenografts. Gamma camera imaging demonstrated clear and specific visualisation of HER2 expression.orporation of a mercaptoacetyl-containing chelating sequence during chemical synthesis enabled site-specific (99m)Tc labelling of the Z(HER2:342) Affibody molecule with preserved targeting capacity.
,   PKZ, protein kinase containing Z-DNA domains, is a novel member of the vertebrate eIF2α kinase family. Containing a catalytic domain in C-terminus and two Z-DNA binding domains (Zα1 and Zα2) in N-terminus, PKZ can be activated through the binding of Zα to Z-DNA. However, the regulatory function of PKZ Zα remains to be established. Here, to understand the impact of PKZ Zα on DNA conformational transition, wild-type Zα1Zα2 and 11 mutant proteins were expressed and purified. At the same time, several different lengths of DNA hairpins-d(GC)nT4(GC)n (n = 2-6) and an RNA hairpin-r(GC)6T4(GC)6 were synthesized. The effects of Zα1Zα2 and mutant proteins on the conformation of these synthetic DNA or RNA hairpins were investigated by using circular dichroism spectrum and gel mobility shift assays. The results showed that DNA hairpins retained a conventional B-DNA conformation in the absence of Zα1Zα2, while some of the DNA hairpins (n≥3) were converted to Z-conformation under Zα1Zα2 induction. The tendency was proportionally associated with the increasing amount of GC repeat. In comparison with Zα1Zα2, Zα1Zα1 rather than Zα2Zα2 displayed a higher ability in converting d(GC)6T4(GC)6 from B- to Z-DNA. These results demonstrated that Zα1 sub-domain played a more essential role in the process of B-Z conformational transition than Zα2 sub-domain did. Mutant proteins (K34A, N38A, R39A, Y42A, P57A, P58A, and W60A) could not convert d(GC)6T4(GC)6 into Z-DNA, whereas S35A or K56A retained some partial activities. Interestingly, Zα1Zα2 was also able to induce r(GC)6T4(GC)6 RNA from A-conformation to Z-conformation under appropriate conditions. 
,   Many Gi-coupled receptors are known to interact with the pertussis toxin (PTX)-insensitive Gz protein. Given that the alpha subunits of Gi and Gz share only 60% identity in their amino acid sequences, their receptor-interacting domains must be highly similar. By swapping the carboxyl termini of alpha i2 and alpha z with each other or with those of alpha t, alpha12, and alpha13, we examined the relative contributions of the carboxyl-end 36 amino acids of the alpha chains toward receptor recognition. Chimeric alpha chains lacking the site for PTX-catalyzed ADP-ribosylation were coexpressed with the type II adenylyl cyclase (AC II) and one of several Gi-coupled receptors (formyl peptide, dopamine D2, and delta-opioid receptors) in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. The alpha i2/alpha z chimera was able to interact with both aminergic and peptidergic receptors, resulting in betagamma-mediated stimulation of AC II in the presence of agonists and PTX. Functional and mutational analyses of alpha i2/alpha z revealed that this chimera can inhibit the endogenous ACs of 293 cells. Similarly, the alpha z/alpha i2 chimera seemed to retain the abilities to interact with receptors and inhibit cAMP accumulation. Fusion of the carboxyl-terminal 36 amino acids of alpha z to a backbone of alpha t1 produced a chimera, alpha t1/alpha z, that did not couple to any of the Gi-coupled receptors tested. Interestingly, an alpha13/alpha z chimera (with only the last five amino acids switched) displayed differential abilities to interact with receptors. Signals from aminergic, but not peptidergic, receptors were transduced by alpha13/alpha z. A similar construct, alpha12/alpha z, behaved just like alpha13/alpha z. These results indicated that "alpha i-like" or "alpha z-like" sequences at the carboxyl termini of alpha subunits are not always necessary or sufficient for specifying interaction with Gi-coupled receptors.
,   Epigenetic phenomena have been associated with the regulation of active and silent chromatin states achieved by modifications of chromatin structure through DNA methylation, and histone post-translational modifications. The latter is accomplished, in part, through the action of PcG (Polycomb group) protein complexes which methylate nucleosomal histone tails at specific sites, ultimately leading to chromatin compaction and gene silencing. Different PcG complex variants operating during different developmental stages have been described in plants. In particular, the so-called FIE/MEA/FIS2 complex governs the expression of genes important in embryo and endosperm development in Arabidopsis. In our effort to understand the epigenetic mechanisms regulating seed development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), an agronomically important monocot plant cultivated for its endosperm, we set out to characterize the genes encoding barley PcG proteins.r barley PcG gene homologues, named HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were identified and structurally and phylogenetically characterized. The corresponding genes HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were mapped onto barley chromosomes 7H, 4H, 2H and 5H, respectively. Expression analysis of the PcG genes revealed significant differences in gene expression among tissues and seed developmental stages and between barley cultivars with varying seed size. Furthermore, HvFIE and HvE(Z) gene expression was responsive to the abiotic stress-related hormone abscisic acid (ABA) known to be involved in seed maturation, dormancy and germination.s study reports the first characterization of the PcG homologues, HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a and HvSu(z)12b in barley. All genes co-localized with known chromosomal regions responsible for malting quality related traits, suggesting that they might be used for developing molecular markers to be applied in marker assisted selection. The PcG differential expression pattern in different tissues and seed developmental stages as well as in two barley cultivars with different seed size is suggestive of a role for these genes in barley seed development. HvFIE and HvE(Z) were also found to be induced by the plant hormone ABA implying an association with ABA-mediated processes during seed development, germination and stress response.
,   X-ray crystallographic and semiempirical PM3 and AM1 studies of 1,1'-dichlorobi-9H-fluoren-9-ylidene (5) are reported. The X-ray molecular structure of (Z)-5 indicated an approximately C2 symmetric conformation with pure twist around C9 = C9' of 40.4 degrees. The fjord regions are somewhat overcrowded: r(C8...C8') = 315.3 pm, r(Cl(1)...Cl(1') = 341.7 pm, r(C(8)...H(8')) = 259.0 pm. The four chlorine atoms of two neighboring molecules of (Z)-5 form a chain. The PM3 calculations showed that the global minimum of 5 is the C2 symmetric twisted conformation t(E)-5, which is 2.4 kJ/mol more stable than its diastereomer C2-t(Z)-5. The corresponding AM1 relative stability is reversed: C2-t(Z)-5 is 1.1 kJ/mol more stable than C2-t(E)-5. The pure twists of t(Z)-5 and t(E)-5 are 37.0 degrees and 37.2 degrees (PM3) and 40.5 degrees and 39.1 degrees (AM1). The corresponding (E) --> (Z) (PM3) and (Z) --> (E) (AM1) energy barriers of diastereomerization are 80.6 kJ/mol (PM3) and 75.8 kJ/mol (AM1). Two anti-folded local minima conformations C2-a(Z)-5 and C(i)-a(E)-5 were found to be 21.2 and 29.5 kJ/mol (PM3) and 25.8 and 35.2 kJ/mol (AM1) less stable than t(E)-5. The syn-folded conformations C(S)-s(Z)-5 and C2-s(E)-5 are transition states for the enantiomerization processes of C2-tz-5 and C2-tE-5, respectively, and lay 79.8 and 94.1 kJ/mol (PM3) and 108.3 and 107.4 kJ/mol (AM1) higher in energy than their corresponding twisted conformations. An alternative pathway for enantiomerization of C2-t(E)-5 via the anti-folded achiral intermediate C(i)-a(E) has a barrier of 56.0 kJ/mol (PM3) and 68.5 (AM1). An alternative pathway for enantiomerization of C2-t(Z)-5 via C2-t(E) and C(i)-a(E) has a barrier of 80.6 (PM3) and 75.8 (AM1) kJ/mol.
,   Monitoring HER2 expression is crucial for selection of breast cancer patients amenable to HER2-targeting therapy. The Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342) binds to HER2 with picomolar affinity and enables specific imaging of HER2 expression. Previously, Z(HER2:342) with the additional N-terminal mercaptoacetyl-glycyl-glycyl-glycyl (maGGG) sequence was labelled with (99m)Tc and demonstrated specific targeting of HER2-expressing xenografts. However, hepatobiliary excretion caused high radioactivity accumulation in the abdomen. We investigated whether the biodistribution of Z(HER2:342) can be improved by substituting glycyl residues in the chelating sequence with more hydrophilic seryl residues. Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342), carrying the chelators mercaptoacetyl-glycyl-seryl-glycyl (maGSG), mercaptoacetyl-glycyl-D: -seryl-glycyl [maG(D-S)G] and mercaptoacetyl-seryl-seryl-seryl (maSSS), were prepared by peptide synthesis and labelled with (99m)Tc. The differences in the excretion pathways were evaluated in normal mice. The tumour targeting capacity of (99m)Tc-maSSS-Z(HER2:342) was studied in nude mice bearing SKOV-3 xenografts and compared with the capacity of radioiodinated Z(HER2:342).hift towards renal excretion was obtained when glycine was substituted with serine in the chelating sequence. The radioactivity in the gastrointestinal tract was reduced threefold for the maSSS conjugate in comparison with the maGGG conjugate 4 h post injection (p.i.). The tumour uptake of (99m)Tc-maSSS-Z(HER2:342) was 11.5 +/- 0.5% IA/g 4 h p.i., and the tumour-to-blood ratio was 76. The pharmacokinetics and uptake characteristics of technetium-labelled Z(HER2:342) were better than those of radioiodinated Z(HER2:342). introduction of serine residues in the chelator results in better tumour imaging properties of the Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342) compared with glycyl-containing chelators and is favourable for imaging of tumours and metastases in the abdominal area.
,   Alterations in the function or density of the m2 muscarinic (mAChR) subtype have been postulated to play an important role in various dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. The ability to image and quantify the m2 mAChR subtype is of importance for a better understanding of the m2 subtype function in various dementias. Z-(R)-1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-y (R)-alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo-1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetate (Z-(R,R)-IQNP) has demonstrated significant uptake in cerebral regions that contain a high concentration of m2 mAChR subtype in addition to heart tissue. The present study was undertaken to determine if the uptake of Z-(R,R)-IQNP in these regions is a receptor mediated process and to identify the radiospecies responsible for binding at the receptor site. A blocking study demonstrated cerebral and cardiac levels of activity were significantly reduced by pretreatment (2-3 mg/kg) of (R)-3-quinuclidinyl benzilate, dexetimide and scopolamine, established muscarinic antagonists. A direct comparison of the cerebral and cardiac uptake of [I-125]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP and [I-131]-E-(R,R)-IQNP (high uptake in ml, m4 rich mAChR cerebral regions) demonstrated Z-(R,R)-IQNP localized to a higher degree in cerebral and cardiac regions containing a high concentration of the m2 mAChR subtype as directly compared to E-(R,R)-IQNP. In addition, a study utilizing [I-123]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP, [I-131]-iododexetimide and [I-125]-R-3-quinuclidinyl S-4-iodobenzilate, Z-(R,R)-IQNP demonstrated significantly higher uptake and longer residence time in those regions which contain a high concentration of the m2 receptor subtype. Folch extraction of global brain and heart tissue at various times post injection of [I-125]-Z-(R,R)-IQNP demonstrated that approximately 80% of the activity was extracted in the lipid soluble fraction and identified as the parent ligand by TLC and HPLC analysis. These results demonstrate Z-(R,R)-IQNP has significant uptake, long residence time and high stability in cerebral and cardiac tissues containing high levels of the m2 mAChR subtype. These combined results strongly suggest that Z-(R,R)-IQNP is an attractive ligand for the in vivo imaging and evaluation of m2 rich cerebral and cardiac regions by SPECT.
,   In the initial days after transplantation islets are particularly vulnerable and show increased apoptosis and necrosis. We have studied the effects of caspase inhibition on this early beta cell death in syngeneically transplanted islets. Streptozotocin-diabetic C57BL/6 mice were transplanted with 150 syngeneic islets, an insufficient mass to restore normoglycemia, preincubated with or without the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD. fmk 2 h before transplantation. Beta cell apoptosis was increased in control islets on day 3 after transplantation (0.28 +/- 0.02%) compared with freshly isolated islets (0.08 +/- 0.02%, p < 0.001), and was partially reduced in transplanted islets preincubated with z-VAD.fmk 200 microM (0.14 +/- 0.02%, p = 0.003) or with z-VAD.fmk 500 microM (0.17 +/- 0.01%, p = 0.012), but not with a lower z-VAD.fmk (100 microM) concentration. Diabetic mice transplanted with islets preincubated with z-VAD.fmk 500 microM showed an improved metabolic evolution compared with control and z-VAD.fmk 200 microM groups. The z-VAD.fmk 500 microM group showed an overall lower blood glucose after transplantation (p = 0.02), and at the end of the study blood glucose values were reduced compared with transplantation day (15.7 +/- 3.6 vs. 32.5 +/- 0.5 mmol/L, p = 0.001). In contrast, blood glucose was not significantly changed in control and z-VAD.fmk 200 microM groups. Four weeks after transplantation beta cell mass was higher in z-VAD.fmk 500 microM group (0.15 +/- 0.02 mg) than in the control group (0.10 +/- 0.02 mg) (p = 0.043). In summary, the treatment of freshly isolated islets with the caspase inhibitor z-VAD.fmk reduced the subsequent apoptosis of the islets once they were transplanted and improved the outcome of the graft.
,   All tumor cell lines that have been tested are defective for Myc auto-repression, and have high levels of Myc produced from wild type loci and re-arranged loci. Like mammalian Myc auto-repression, Myc protein represses the expression of its gene, dmyc, in Drosophila. This activity requires Polycomb (Pc), since RNAi for Pc in the embryo eliminates Myc auto-repression. We have observed that upon depletion of Polycomb in the embryo, levels of one of 18 different chromatin-binding genetic regulators, Su(z)2, rise dramatically. We pursued the possibility that increased levels of this protein, Su(z)2, interfere with Myc auto-repression, potentially explaining the loss of auto-repression upon Pc RNAi. We report that embryos expressing both ectopic Myc and ectopic Su(z)2 fail in Myc auto-repression. Surprisingly, histone H3K27 tri-methylation at the dmyc locus is inversely correlated with the presence of auto-repression. We show phenotypic consequences of potent dmyc auto-repression, and their complete reversal by ectopic Su(z)2: dmyc auto-repression induced a diminutive (dm) phenotype, and upon elimination of auto-repression by Su(z)2, overall levels of Myc increased and completely rescued the phenotype. We show that this increase in Myc levels caused dramatic activation of Myc activation targets. These data suggest that Su(z)2 is capable of increasing the potency of Myc activity by eliminating Myc's feedback regulation by auto-repression. Although Su(z)2 eliminated Myc auto-repression, we found that Myc repression of other genes is not affected by Su(z)2. These data suggest a unique antagonistic role for Su(z)2 in Myc auto-repression, and a potential mechanism for cancer-cell specific loss of Myc auto-repression.
,   Our previous studies have shown that z-guggulsterone, a constituent of Indian Ayurvedic medicinal plant Commiphora mukul, inhibits the growth of human prostate cancer cells by causing apoptosis. We now report a novel response to z-guggulsterone involving the inhibition of angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. The z-guggulsterone treatment inhibited capillary-like tube formation (in vitro neovascularization) by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and migration by HUVEC and DU145 human prostate cancer cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The z- and E-isomers of guggulsterone seemed equipotent as inhibitors of HUVEC tube formation. The z-guggulsterone-mediated inhibition of angiogenesis in vitro correlated with the suppression of secretion of proangiogenic growth factors [e.g., vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor], down-regulation of VEGF receptor 2 (VEGF-R2) protein level, and inactivation of Akt. The z-guggulsterone-mediated suppression of DU145 cell migration was increased by knockdown of VEGF-R2 protein level. Ectopic expression of constitutively active Akt in DU145 cells conferred protection against z-guggulsterone-mediated inhibition of cell migration. Oral gavage of 1 mg z-guggulsterone/d (five times/wk) to male nude mice inhibited in vivo angiogenesis in DU145-Matrigel plug assay as evidenced by a statistically significant decrease in tumor burden, microvessel area (staining for angiogenic markers factor VIII and CD31), and VEGF-R2 protein expression. In conclusion, the present study reveals that z-guggulsterone inhibits angiogenesis by suppressing the VEGF-VEGF-R2-Akt signaling axis. Together, our results provide compelling rationale for further preclinical and clinical investigation of z-guggulsterone for its efficacy against prostate cancer.
,   The survival of bifidobacteria in simulated conditions of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract was studied based on the D- and z-value concept. Some Bifidobacterium spp. are probiotics that improve microbial balance in the human GI tract. Because they are sensitive to low pH and bile salt concentrations, their viability in the GI tract is limited. The D- and z-value approach was therefore adopted as a result of observing constant log-cell reduction (90%) when Bifidobacterium spp. were exposed to these 2 different stressing factors. Survivals of one strain each or 4 species of Bifidobacterium was studied at pH between 3.0 and 4.5 and in ox-bile between 0.15% and 0.60% for times up to 41 h. From the D(acid)- and D(bile)-values, the order of resistance to acid and bile was B. bifidum > B. infantis > B. longum > B. adolescentis. While the former 3 strains retained high cell viability at pH 3.5 (>5.5 log CFU/mL after 5 h) and at elevated bile salt concentration of 0.6% (>4.5 log CFU/mL after 3 h), B. adolescentis was less resistant (<3.4 log CFU/mL). The z(acid)- and z(bile)-values calculated from the D(acid)- and D(bile)-values ranged from 1.11 to 1.55 pH units and 0.40% to 0.49%, respectively. The results suggest that the D(acid)-, D(bile)-, z(acid)-, and z(bile)-value approach could be more appropriate than the screening and selection method in evaluating survival of probiotic bacteria, and in measuring their tolerance or resistance to gastric acidity and the associated bile salt concentration in the small intestine. evaluation of the tolerance of bifidobacteria to bile salts and low pH has been made possible by use of D- and z-value concept. The calculated z(acid)- and z(bile)-values were all fairly similar for the strains used and suggest the effect of increasing the bile salt concentration or decreasing the pH on the D(acid)- and D(bile)-values. This approach would be useful for predicting the suitability of bifidobacteria and other lactic acid bacteria (LAB) as probiotics for use in real-life situations.
,   An endothelialized lumen within a synthetic graft that expresses recombinant proteins with anticoagulant or antiproliferative activity has the potential to improve graft function. However, preliminary data suggest that genetic modification of endothelial cells (ECs) impairs their proliferation. The purpose of this investigation was to test the hypothesis that retroviral transduction of cultured ECs with the lac Z gene encoding for beta-galactosidase would decrease EC proliferation in vitro and graft endothelialization in vivo.vitro studies compared canine EC proliferation over a 14-day period among early-passage ECs (two and three) and late-passage ECs (six and nine) transduced with the BAG vector (containing the lac Z gene and the neomycin resistance gene), ECs transduced with the neomycin resistance gene only, the nontransduced ECs. In vivo canine studies assessed endothelialization of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene thoracoabdominal grafts seeded with autologous lac Z-transduced ECs (n = 7) or nontransduced ECs (n = 3) compared with that of nonseeded grafts (n = 3). Histochemical staining and DNA polymerase chain reaction was used 6 weeks after implantation to detect the presence of the lac Z gene in the grafts' cellular linings and perigraft tissues. Endothelialization was assessed by light microscopy and electron microscopy.liferation of late-passage lac Z-transduced ECs in vitro was significantly decreased compared with neomycin resistance-transduced ECs or nontransduced ECs. Among early-passage ECs smaller but significant decreases in proliferation were noted among lac Z-transduced cells compared with nontransduced cells. Six of seven expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts seeded with transduced ECs showed lac Z gene expression. Lac Z gene expression was not found on grafts seeded with nontransduced ECs or nonseeded grafts. The endothelialized luminal surface area was significantly less in grafts seeded with lac Z-transduced ECs compared with grafts seeded with nontransduced ECs.roviral-mediated transduction of canine ECs with the lac Z gene encoding for beta-galactosidase impairs EC proliferation in vitro and the ability of transduced ECs to form a confluent EC monolayer on the luminal surface of synthetic grafts in vivo.
,   The complete DNA sequence of the 1.7 kilobase pairs (kbp) 5' of the rat growth hormone gene (rGH) has been determined and analyzed for Z-DNA-forming potential. Regions of alternating purine-pyrimidine (APP) sequences located between -1047 and -986 [(GT)31], between -445 and -433 bp, and between -426 and -403 bp relative to the rGH RNA transcription initiation site were identified and shown to form Z-DNA in negatively supercoiled plasmids by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Free-energy calculations indicated that Z-DNA forms most readily in the proximal Z-DNA regions. Diethyl pyrocarbonate footprinting of physiologically supercoiled plasmid DNA confirmed the presence of Z-DNA from -444 to -404 bp spanning the two most proximal APP sequences and a short non-APP sequence in between. DNA sequence analysis also predicted a region of DNA curvature near this proximal Z-DNA region. Formation of Z-DNA in the distal Z-DNA region consisting of a (GT)31 repeat was constrained at physiological plasmid superhelical densities. This may be related to the presence of DNA sequences (-1584 to -1559) 512 bp upstream of (GT)31 that undergo cruciform formation and thereby utilize the available free energy. Removal of 580 bp containing the cruciform region resulted in Z-DNA formation within (GT)31, thus demonstrating that deletion mutations can exert topological changes at a distance within the rGH 5'-flanking region. Methylation of two specific cytosines in the rGH 5'-flanking DNA that have been associated with inhibition of rGH promoter activity had no effect on Z-DNA formation. No evidence for DNA secondary structure formation within the rGH second exon-intron or 3'-flanking region was observed. We conclude that the rGH 5'-flanking region undergoes secondary-structure formation at physiological superhelical densities, thus providing a potential mechanism(s) for modulating rGH activity.
,   Site-specific insertion of 5-(3-aminopropyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (Z3dU) and 7-deaza-dG into the Dickerson-Drew dodecamers 5'-d(C (1)G (2)C (3)G (4)A (5)A (6)T (7)T (8)C (9) Z (10)C (11)G (12))-3'.5'-d(C (13)G (14)C (15)G (16)A (17)A (18)T (19)T (20)C (21) Z (22)C (23)G (24))-3' (named DDD (Z10)) and 5'-d(C (1)G (2)C (3)G (4)A (5)A (6)T (7) X (8)C (9) Z (10)C (11)G (12))-3'.5'-d(C (13)G (14)C (15)G (16)A (17)A (18)T (19) X (20)C (21) Z (22)C (23)G (24))-3' (named DDD (2+Z10)) (X = Z3dU; Z = 7-deaza-dG) suggests a mechanism underlying the formation of interstrand N+2 DNA cross-links by nitrogen mustards, e.g., melphalan and mechlorethamine. Analysis of the DDD (2+Z10) duplex reveals that the tethered cations at base pairs A (5).X (20) and X (8).A (17) extend within the major groove in the 3'-direction, toward conserved Mg (2+) binding sites located adjacent to N+2 base pairs C (3).Z (22) and Z (10).C (15). Bridging waters located between the tethered amines and either Z (10) or Z (22) O (6) stabilize the tethered cations and allow interactions with the N + 2 base pairs without DNA bending. Incorporation of 7-deaza-dG into the DDD (2+Z10) duplex weakens but does not eliminate electrostatic interactions between tethered amines and Z (10) O (6) and Z (22) O (6). The results suggest a mechanism by which tethered N7-dG aziridinium ions, the active species involved in formation of interstrand 5'-GNC-3' cross-links by nitrogen mustards, modify the electrostatics of the major groove and position the aziridinium ions proximate to the major groove edge of the N+2 C.G base pair, facilitating interstrand cross-linking.
,   Polycomb group proteins mediate heritable transcriptional silencing and function through multiprotein complexes that methylate and ubiquitinate histones. The 600-kDa E(Z)/ESC complex, also known as Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), specifically methylates histone H3 lysine 27 (H3 K27) through the intrinsic histone methyltransferase (HMTase) activity of the E(Z) SET domain. By itself, E(Z) exhibits no detectable HMTase activity and requires ESC for methylation of H3 K27. The molecular basis for this requirement is unknown. ESC binds directly, via its C-terminal WD repeats (beta-propeller domain), to E(Z). Here, we show that the N-terminal region of ESC that precedes its beta-propeller domain interacts directly with histone H3, thereby physically linking E(Z) to its substrate. We show that when expressed in stable S2 cell lines, an N-terminally truncated ESC (FLAG-ESC61-425), like full-length ESC, is incorporated into complexes with E(Z) and binds to a Ubx Polycomb response element in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. However, incorporation of this N-terminally truncated ESC into E(Z) complexes prevents trimethylation of histone H3 by E(Z). We also show that a closely related Drosophila melanogaster paralog of ESC, ESC-like (ESCL), and the mammalian homolog of ESC, EED, also interact with histone H3 via their N termini, indicating that the interaction of ESC with histone H3 is evolutionarily conserved, reflecting its functional importance. Our data suggest that one of the roles of ESC (and ESCL and EED) in PRC2 complexes is to enable E(Z) to utilize histone H3 as a substrate by physically linking enzyme and substrate.
,   Mitomycin C (MC), an antitumor antibiotic, alkylated Z-DNAs such as poly(dG-dC)/Co(NH3)3+(6), poly(dG-m5dC)/Mg2+ and brominated poly(dG-dC) upon reductive activation. Computer-generated energy-minimized molecular models indicated that monofunctional alkylation of Z-DNA at the N2-position of guanine by MC did not distort Z-DNA geometry, but bifunctional alkylation, leading to interstrand crosslinks between two N2-positions of guanine was sterically unfavorable. The above three Z-DNA's were exposed both to monofunctionally and bifunctionally activated MC in separate experiments and the resulting covalent MC-polynucleotide complexes were examined for conformation and for covalent MC-adducts, by circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy and HPLC analysis of nuclease digests, respectively. Monofunctionally activated MC alkylated all three polynucleotides in their Z-forms, resulting in the same monofunctional N2-guanine adduct as that known to be formed with B-DNA. Upon bifunctional activation of MC, poly(dG-dC/Co(NH3)3+(6) reverted to the B-form and bifunctional (cross-link) adducts were detected, identical again with those formed with B-DNA. Poly(dG-m5dC), however, remained in the Z-form after the alkylation and only a monofunctional adduct could be detected. It was concluded that Z-DNA is subject to monofunctional alkylation by MC but cannot be cross-linked. The latter process occurs only when the Z-DNA is labile enough [as is in the case of poly(dG-dC)] to have some B-form in equilibrium at the site of the first formed monolinked adduct; the cross-linking then occurs at such local B-sites, pulling the overall B in equilibrium Z equilibrium irreversibly to the left. These results are in accord with the predictions from the above modeling. The irreversible "lock" by the MC cross-link on B-DNA may be exploited for probing Z-DNA intermediacy in various DNA functions.
,   The use of radionuclide molecular imaging enables the selection of patients for treatment using molecular medicine. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that a novel low-molecular-weight affinity ligand, Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342) can image the expression of HER2 with high sensitivity and specificity in tumour xenografts and has a potential for the selection of patients for treatment using Herceptin or other anti-HER2 medicine. In this study, we performed a comparative evaluation of two possible linkers for radioiodination of the Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342), 4-iodobenzoate (PIB) and [4-isothiocyanatobenzyl)-amino]-undecahydro-closo-dodecaborate (DABI). It was shown that the use of DABI makes it possible to obtain radioiodinated Z(HER2:342) with preserved capacity for selective binding to HER2-expressing cells. There was no difference between 125I-PIB-Z(HER2:342) and 125I-DABI-Z(HER2:342) in cellular retention of radioactivity after interrupted incubation with radiolabelled Affibody ligands. In vivo, the biodistribution of 125I-PIB-Z(HER2:342) was characterized by a high tumour uptake at 4 h pi (12.7+/-4.6% IA/g) and a quick clearance from blood and normal organs. The tumour uptake of 125I-DABI-Z(HER2:342) was appreciably lower (2.7+/-1.2% IA/g), and a high uptake of this conjugate in the liver was observed. A gamma-camera experiment (at 6 h pi) demonstrated that the use of 125I-PIB-Z(HER2:342) provided a much better contrast of imaging HER2-expressing xenografts than the use of 125I-DABI-Z(HER2:342). In conclusion, 125I-PIB-Z(HER2:342) is superior to 125I-DABI-Z(HER2:342) as an agent for imaging HER2 expression in vivo.
,   In the present study, the inhibitory properties of N-[2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl]-2-[(2-hydroxy-4,5-dimethoxybenzoyl)amino]-1,3-thiazole-4-carboxamide monohydrochloride trihydrate (Z-338), a novel gastroprokinetic agent, were investigated and compared with those of cisapride to establish its potential for drug-drug interactions. There was no notable inhibition of terfenadine metabolism or of any of the isoforms of cytochrome P450 (CYP1A1/2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4) by Z-338 in in vitro studies using human liver microsomes. Z-338 was mainly metabolized to its glucuronide by UGT1A9 (UDP glucoronosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A9) and UGT1A8, and did not show marked inhibition of P-glycoprotein activity. On the other hand, cisapride strongly inhibited CYP3A4 and markedly inhibited CYP2C9. Furthermore, we used the whole-cell patch-clamp technique to investigate the effects of Z-338 and cisapride on potassium currents in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells transfected with the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG). Z-338 had no significant effect on hERG-related current at the relatively high concentration of 10 microM. In contrast, the inhibition by Z-338 was very small compared with that of cisapride at 10 nM, which was a thousand-fold lower concentration. In the prediction method for the drug interaction between terfenadine and cisapride based on the K(i) and PK parameters, we suggest the possibility that terfenadine mainly affect the QT interval, since its plasma concentration would be markedly increased, but cisapride may not be changed. Thus, in contrast with cisapride, Z-338 did not inhibit CYP and the hERG channel, and is predominantly metabolized by glucuronide conjugation, Z-338 is considered unlikely to cause significant drug-drug interactions when coadministered with CYP substrates at clinically effective doses.
,   This study of changes in dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) spine BMD following diagnosis and treatment for childhood Crohn's disease demonstrated that changes in conventional posteroanterior BMD results were confounded by impaired growth, and suggested that lateral spine measurements and strategies to estimate volumetric BMD were more sensitive to disease and treatment effects.previously reported significant increases in peripheral quantitative CT (pQCT) measures of trabecular volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) following diagnosis and treatment of pediatric Crohn's disease (CD). The objective of this study was to compare pQCT trabecular vBMD and three DXA measures of spine BMD in this cohort: (1) conventional posteroanterior BMD (PA-BMD), (2) PA-BMD adjusted for height Z (PA-BMDHtZ), and (3) width-adjusted volumetric BMD (WA-BMD) estimated from PA and lateral scans.ne DXA [lumbar (L1-4) for posteroanterior and L3 for lateral] and tibia pQCT scans were obtained in 65 CD subjects (ages 7-18 years) at diagnosis and 12 months later. BMD results were converted to sex, race, and age-specific Z-scores based on reference data in >650 children (ages 5-21 years). Multivariable linear regression models identified factors associated with BMD Z-scores.CD diagnosis, all BMD Z-scores were lower compared with the reference children (all p values <0.01). The pQCT vBMD Z-scores (-1.46 ± 1.30) were lower compared with DXA PA-BMD (-0.75 ± 0.98), PA-BMDHtZ (-0.53 ± 0.87), and WA-BMD (-0.61 ± 1.10) among CD participants. Only PA-BMD Z-scores were correlated with height Z-scores at baseline (R = 0.47, p < 0.0001). pQCT and WA-BMD Z-scores increased significantly over 12 months to -1.04 ± 1.26 and -0.20 ± 1.14, respectively. Changes in all four BMD Z-scores were positively associated with changes in height Z-scores (p < 0.05). Glucocorticoid doses were inversely associated with changes in WA-BMD (p < 0.01) only.ventional and height Z-score-adjusted PA DXA methods did not demonstrate the significant increases in trabecular vBMD noted on pQCT and WA-BMD scans. WA-BMD captured glucocorticoid effects, potentially due to isolation of the vertebral body on the lateral projection. Future studies are needed to identify the BMD measure that provides greatest fracture discrimination in CD.
,   The structures of ZI- and ZII-form RNA and DNA oligonucleotides were energy minimized in vacuum using the AMBER molecular mechanics force field. Alternating C-G sequences were studied containing either unmodified nucleotides, 8-bromoguanosine in place of all guanosine residues, 5-bromocytidine in place of all cytidine residues, or all modified residues. Some molecules were also energy minimized in the presence of H2O and cations. Free energy perturbation calculations were done in which G8 and C5 hydrogen atoms in one or two residues of Z-form RNAs and DNAs were replaced in a stepwise manner by bromines. Bromination had little effect on the structures of the energy-minimized molecules. Both the minimized molecular energies and the results of the perturbation calculations indicate that bromination of guanosine at C8 will stabilize the Z forms of RNA and DNA relative to the nonbrominated Z form, while bromination of cytidine at C5 stabilizes Z-DNA and destabilizes Z-RNA. These results are in agreement with experimental data. The destabilizing effect of br5C in Z-RNAs is apparently due to an unfavorable interaction between the negatively charged C5 bromine atom and the guanosine hydroxyl group. The vacuum-minimized energies of the ZII-form oligonucleotides are lower than those of the corresponding ZI-form molecules for both RNA and DNA. Previous x-ray diffraction, nmr, and molecular mechanics studies indicate that hydration effects may favor the ZI conformation over the ZII form in DNA. Molecular mechanics calculations show that the ZII-ZI energy differences for the RNAs are greater than three times those obtained for the DNAs. This is due to structurally reinforcing hydrogen-bonding interactions involving the hydroxyl groups in the ZII form, especially between the guanosine hydroxyl hydrogen atom and the 3'-adjacent phosphate oxygen. In addition, the cytidine hydroxyl oxygen forms a hydrogen bond with the 5'-adjacent guanosine amino group in the ZII-form molecule. Both of these interactions are less likely in the ZI-form molecule: the former due to the orientation of the GpC phosphate away from the guanosine ribose in the ZI form, and the latter apparently due to competitive hydrogen bonding of the cytidine 2'-hydroxyl hydrogen with the cytosine carbonyl oxygen in the ZI form. The hydrogen-bonding interaction between the cytidine hydroxyl oxygen and the 5'-adjacent guanosine amino group in Z-RNA twists the amino group out of the plane of the base. This may be responsible for differences in the CD and Raman spectra of Z-RNA and Z-DNA.
,   Alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT) deficiency disease results from mutations in the A1AT gene. Controversy exists in regards to treatment of heterozygous carriers of the S and Z deficiency alleles. Quantitation of allelic expression has not been possible with standard laboratory methods. Here we show that the recently described method for liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis of A1AT tryptic peptides can differentiate between mutated (S and Z) and wild-type (non-S and non-Z) proteins allowing for quantitation of circulating allelic expression in heterozygous patients.um (244 M/M, 61 M/Z, and 63 M/S) was combined with isotopically labeled peptide standards, digested with trypsin, and quantitated by LC-MS/MS. Total and allele-specific A1AT quantitation was performed by comparison of peptide peak height ratios to a standard curve for each peptide. Linear regression was used to compare results and central 95(th) percentile intervals were calculated using parametric analysis.ntitation of circulating wild-type A1AT based on the proteotypic and allelic (non-S and non-Z) peptides was validated in M/M patients. Proteotypic peptide concentrations correlated linearly with quantitation by non-Z and non-S peptides [slopes (Spearman correlation coefficient) of 1.09 (0.89) and 0.98 (0.80), respectively]. Allele-specific quantitation showed significant differences in wild-type protein expression in M/Z and M/S patients. Although average total A1AT concentration was lower for M/Z patients, the percentage of wild-type protein in M/Z patients was significantly higher at 82 % (55- > 95 %) compared to 63 % (43-83 %) for M/S heterozygotes. In a cohort of M/Z patients with sufficient total A1AT (≥80 mg/dL), half had insufficient wild-type protein that could have clinical implications for pulmonary dysfunction. the first time, a method to quantitate A1AT allele protein expression is described. Given the wide range of circulating wild-type protein observed in heterozygous patients, this method has the potential to reveal correlations between allele concentration and development and/or severity of clinical symptoms.
,   Binding of thiols of varying charge (Z) in nuclei prepared in suspension was determined to assess the extent to which histones, Mg2+ spermine and chromatin structure influence counter-ion condensation of cationic thiols and co-ion depletion of anionic thiols at DNA. The nuclei were prepared in suspension buffer, washed and incubated in buffer containing thiol and graded amounts of Mg2+ and spermine. The nuclei were separated from the incubation medium by centrifugation through silicone oil, and the thiols were determined in the nuclear pellet and in the incubation buffer by labeling with monobromobimane and HPLC. Measurements of the water content of nuclei indicated that chromatin was fully condensed in buffer containing 5 mM MgCl2 and 115 mM KCl. Under these conditions nuclei incubated in 1 mM substrate had concentrations of 0.80 +/- 0.21 mM glutathione (Z = -1), 1.05 +/- 0.12 mM 2-mercaptoethanol (Z = 0), 0.95 +/- 0.15 mM cysteine (Z = 0), 0.75 +/- 0.29 mM cysteamine (Z = +1), 2.5 +/- 0.3 mM WR-1065 (Z = +2), 3.4 +/- 0.5 mM WR-35980 (Z = +3) and 12 +/- 2 mM WR-33278 (disulfide of WR-1065, Z = +4), respectively. Spermine up to 1 mM in the presence of 5 mM Mg2+ had little effect upon the binding of these thiols and disulfide, but did suppress the binding of 0.1 mM WR-33278, the results indicating that WR-33278 and spermine compete for the same sites with comparable affinity. From the results observed and the assumption that deviations from the bulk solution concentration (1 mM) result from counter-ion condensation within 3 nm of DNA, we estimate that WR-1065 (Z = +2), WR-35980 (Z = +3) and WR-33278 (Z = +4) were concentrated near DNA 6-, 8- and 20-fold, respectively, in the presence of histones, 5 mM Mg2+ and 1.0 mM spermine.
,   G protein-activated K(+) channel (GIRK), which is activated by the G(betagamma) subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins, and muscarinic m2 receptor (m2R) were coexpressed in Xenopus oocytes. Acetylcholine evoked a K(+) current, I(ACh), via the endogenous pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G(i/o) proteins. Activation of I(ACh) was accelerated by increasing the expression of m2R, suggesting a collision coupling mechanism in which one receptor catalytically activates several G proteins. Coexpression of the alpha subunit of the PTX-insensitive G protein G(z), Galpha(z), induced a slowly activating PTX-insensitive I(ACh), whose activation kinetics were also compatible with the collision coupling mechanism. When GIRK was coexpressed with an m2R x Galpha(z) fusion protein (tandem), in which the C terminus of m2R was tethered to the N terminus of Galpha(z), part of I(ACh) was still eliminated by PTX. Thus, the m2R of the tandem activates the tethered Galpha(z) but also the nontethered G(i/o) proteins. After PTX treatment, the speed of activation of the m2R x Galpha(z)-mediated response did not depend on the expression level of m2R x Galpha(z) and was faster than when m2R and Galpha(z) were coexpressed as separate proteins. These results demonstrate that fusing the receptor and the Galpha strengthens their coupling, support the collision-coupling mechanism between m2R and the G proteins, and suggest a noncatalytic (stoichiometric) coupling between the G protein and GIRK in this model system.
,   Redox-active ferrocene- and triarylamine-terminated diethynylethene derivatives have been synthesized and their photochromic properties and switching behavior based on through-bond electronic communication between the two redox sites, as well as their emissions, have been examined. Both bis(ferrocenylethynyl)ethene 1 and bis(triarylaminoethynyl)ethene 2 show visible-light photochromism induced by donor-acceptor charge-transfer (CT) transitions from the ferrocene or triarylamine to the diethynylethene moieties. The reversibility and quantum yields of the photochromism of 2 (Phi(E-->Z)=6.1 x 10(-2), Phi(Z-->E)=1.4 x 10(-2)) are far higher than those of 1 (Phi(E-->Z)=8.6 x 10(-6), Phi(Z-->E)=2.5 x 10(-6)). The higher efficiency in 2 may be attributed to the absence of the heavy atom effect and of a low-lying (3)LF state, which are characteristic of ferrocenyl compounds. This proposition is further supported by the fact that bis(ferrocenylbuta-1,3-diynyl)ethene 3, which, unlike 1, is free from steric interference between the two ferrocenyl groups in the Z form, does not show a significant improvement in its photoisomerization quantum yields (Phi(E-->Z)=6.2x10(-5), Phi(Z-->E)=3.4 x 10(-5)). The visible-light photochromism of 1 and 2 is accompanied by a switch in the strength of the electronic communication between the two redox sites in their mixed-valence states (DeltaE(0)' values are 70 and 48 mV for (E)-1 and (Z)-1, and 74 and 63 mV for (E)-2 and (Z)-2). In the case of 2, further evaluations were carried out through intervalence charge-transfer (IVCT) band analyses and DFT calculations. We have also demonstrated that steric repulsion between the methyl ester moieties in the Z form is implicated in the reduction in the through-bond electronic communication. Compound 2 exhibits photoluminescence, which is more efficient in the E form than in the Z form, whereas 1 and 3 show no photoluminescence.
,   Seventy-two Holstein steers averaging 182 kg were assigned randomly to one of six treatment groups: 1) nonimplanted controls (C); 2) implanted with 36 mg of zeranol (Z); 3) implanted with 20 mg of estradiol benzoate and 200 mg of progesterone (EP); 4) implanted with 140 mg of trenbolone acetate (TBA); 5) implanted with 140 mg of trenbolone acetate plus 20 mg of estradiol benzoate and 200 mg of progesterone (TBA + EP); and 6) implanted with 140 mg of trenbolone acetate plus 36 mg of zeranol (TBA + Z). Each treatment group consisted of three replications of four animals per pen, which were implanted on d 0, 56, 112, and 168. Masculinity and muscling scores were assigned at 24 h preslaughter. Hide removal difficulty was scored by a plant supervisor. Quality and yield grade data were obtained at 24 h postmortem. Longissimus muscle (LM) steaks were removed and cooked for Warner-Bratzler shear (WBS) determinations and sensory panel (SP) evaluations. Over the entire feeding period (249 d), TBA + EP steers had higher (P less than .05) ADG than TBA + Z, TBA, and C steers. All treatments had higher (P less than .05) ADG than C, with the exception of TBA. The only feed efficiency differences were those following the 168-d implant time, when TBA steers were more (P less than .05) efficient than TBA + Z or C steers. The TBA + EP and TBA + Z steers were more (P less than .05) masculine and their hides were more (P less than .05) difficult to remove than those of EP and C steers. Carcass weights of TBA + EP steers were heavier (P less than .05) than those of TBA or C steers. The TBA + EP steers had larger (P less than .05) LM areas than Z, TBA, and C steers. Also, TBA + EP steers tended (P = .07) to have lower numerical yield grades than EP, Z, or C steers. Even though mean marbling scores and quality grades were similar (P greater than .05) among treatment groups, only 50% of TBA + EP carcasses graded low Choice or higher, compared with 100, 75, 82, 90, and 83% for C, TBA, Z, EP, and TBA + Z carcasses, respectively. The only meat palatability differences were that myofibrillar and overall tenderness scores tended to be lower (P = .07) for steaks from EP and TBA + Z than for steaks from Z and C groups.
,   A 6.5-kb N-terminal region of embryonic chick cardiac titin, including the region previously reported as part of the protein zeugmatin, has been sequenced, further demonstrating that zeugmatin is part of the N-terminal region of titin, and not a separate Z-band protein. This Z-band region of cardiac titin, from both 7- and 19-day embryos as well as from adult animals, was found to contain six different small motifs, termed z-repeats [Gautel et al., 1996: J. Cell Sci. 109:2747-2754], of approximately 45 amino acids each sandwiched between flanking regions containing Ig domains. Fragments of Z-band titin, linked to GFP, were expressed in cultured cardiomyocytes to determine which regions were responsible for Z-band targeting. Transfections of primary cultures of embryonic chick cardiomyocytes demonstrated that the z-repeats play the major role in targeting titin fragments to the Z-band. Similar transfections of skeletal myotubes and non-muscle cells lead to the localization of these cardiac z-repeats in the Z-bands of the myofibrils and the dense bodies of the stress fibers. Over-expression of these z-repeat constructs in either muscle or non-muscle cells lead to the loss of the myofibrils or stress fibers, respectively. The transfection experiments also indicated that small domains of a protein, 40 to 50 amino acids, can be studied for their localization properties in living cells if a suitable linker is placed between these small domains and the much larger 28 kDa GFP protein.
,   In this study, the role of interleukin (IL)-12 on the antimetastatic effect of Z-100 was investigated using wild-type C57BL/6 mice or IL-12p40 knockout (IL-12p40 KO) mice inoculated with highly metastatic B16F10 melanoma. When C57BL/6 mice were inoculated with B16F10 melanoma (2x10(5) cells/mouse i.v.), Z-100 (10 mg/kg i.p.) significantly suppressed the pulmonary metastasis of B16F10 melanoma 14 d after tumor inoculation. On the other hand, the antimetastatic effect of Z-100 was not observed in IL-12p40 KO mice inoculated with B16F10 melanoma. These results indicate that IL-12 is essentially required for the appearance of the antimetastatic effect of Z-100. Since helper T (Th) 2 cell responses have been reported to have a role in tumor metastasis, the regulatory effect of Z-100 on the immune balance of Th1/Th2 cell responses was investigated. In both C57BL/6 mice and IL-12p40 KO mice bearing B16F10 melanoma, Th1 cytokine production (IL-2, interferon-gamma) was significantly suppressed as compared with those in normal mice. On the other hand, Th2 cytokine production (IL-4, IL-10) in these mice was increased. The administration of Z-100 (10 mg/kg i.p.) in C57BL/6 mice bearing B16F10 melanoma improved the balance of Th1/Th2 cell responses from the Th2-dominant state to the normal state. However, the improvement of Th1/Th2 cell responses by Z-100 was not observed in IL-12p40 KO mice bearing the same tumors. In addition, Z-100 significantly increased IL-12 production by macrophages in a concentration-dependent manner, while Z-100 significantly decreased IL-10 production by these cells in vitro. These results suggested that up-regulation of IL-12 production and down-regulation of IL-10 production by Z-100 are related to the improvement of Th1/Th2 cell responses from the Th2-dominant state to the normal state, which resulted in suppression of tumor metastasis.
,   The TCR zeta-chain-associated protein of 70 kDA (ZAP-70) and Syk tyrosine kinases play critical roles in regulating TCR-mediated signal transduction. They not only share some overlapped functions but also may play unique roles in regulating the function and development of T cells. However, it is not known whether they have different effects on the activation and activation-induced cell death of T cells. To address this question, we generated cDNAs encoding chimeric molecules that a tailless TCR zeta-chain was directly linked to truncated ZAP-70 (Z/ZAP) or Syk (Z/Syk) molecules lacking the two Src homology 2 domains. Transfection of these molecules into zeta-chain-deficient cells restored their TCR expression. In addition, Z/ZAP and Z/Syk transfectants but not control cells demonstrated kinase activities in phosphorylating an exogenous substrate specific for ZAP-70 and Syk kinases. Z/ZAP transfectants activated through TCRs underwent a faster time course of apoptosis and had a greater percentage of apoptotic cells than that of Z/Syk and control cells. Activated Z/ZAP transfectants increased Fas and Fas ligand (FasL) expression 3- and 40-fold, respectively. Blocking of the Fas/FasL interaction could inhibit the apoptosis of Z/ZAP transfectants. In contrast, although activated Z/Syk transfectants could increase FasL expression, their Fas expression actually decreased and the percentage of apoptotic cells did not increase. Further studies of the mechanisms revealed that activation of Z/ZAP but not Z/Syk transfectants resulted in rapid activation of caspase-3 and caspase-8 that could also be inhibited by blocking Fas/FasL interaction. These results demonstrated that ZAP-70 and Syk play distinct roles in T cell activation and activation-induced cell death.
,   To compare BMI with abdominal skinfold thickness (ASF), waist circumference and waist-to-height ratio in the prediction of insulin resistance (IR) in prepubertal Colombian children.calculated age- and sex-specific Z-scores for BMI, ASF, waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio and three other skinfold-thickness sites. Logistic regression with stepwise selection (P = 0·80 for entry and P = 0·05 for retention) was performed to identify predictors of IR and extreme IR, which were determined by age- and sex-specific Z-scores to identify the ≥ 90th and ≥ 95th percentile of homeostasis model assessment (HOMAIR), respectively. We used receiver operating characteristic curves to compare the area under the curve between models.aramanga, Colombia.ldren (n 1261) aged 6-10 years in Tanner stage 1 from a population-based study.otal of 127 children (seventy girls and fifty-seven boys) were classified with IR, including sixty-three children (thirty-three girls and thirty boys) classified with extreme IR. Only ASF and BMI Z-scores were retained as predictors of IR by stepwise selection. Adding ASF Z-score to BMI Z-score improved the area under the curve from 0·794 (95 % CI 0·752, 0·837) to 0·811 (95 % CI 0·770, 0·851; P for contrast = 0·01). In predicting extreme IR, the addition of ASF Z-score to BMI Z-score improved the area under the curve from 0·837 (95 % CI 0·790, 0·884) to 0·864 (95 % CI 0·823, 0·905; P for contrast = 0·01). Z-score predicted IR independent of BMI Z-score in our population of prepubertal children. ASF and BMI Z-scores together improved IR risk stratification compared with BMI Z-score alone, opening new perspectives in the prediction of cardiometabolic risk in prepubertal children.
,   Children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy have a lower birth weight but have a higher chance to become overweight during childhood.followed children longitudinally to assess the age when higher body mass index (BMI) z-scores became evident in the children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy, and to evaluate the trajectory of changes until adolescence.pooled data from two German cohort studies that included repeated anthropometric measurements until 14 years of age and information on smoking during pregnancy and other risk factors for overweight. We used longitudinal quantile regression to estimate age- and sex-specific associations between maternal smoking and the 10th, 25th, 50th, 75th, and 90th quantiles of the BMI z-score distribution in study participants from birth through 14 years of age, adjusted for potential confounders. We used additive mixed models to estimate associations with mean BMI z-scores.n and median (50th quantile) BMI z-scores at birth were smaller in the children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy compared with children of nonsmoking mothers, but BMI z-scores were significantly associated with maternal smoking beginning at the age of 4-5 years, and differences increased over time. For example, the difference in the median BMI z-score between the daughters of smokers versus nonsmokers was 0.12 (95% CI: 0.01, 0.21) at 5 years, and 0.30 (95% CI: 0.08, 0.39) at 14 years of age. For lower BMI z-score quantiles, the association with smoking was more pronounced in girls, whereas in boys the association was more pronounced for higher BMI z-score quantiles.lear difference in BMI z-score (mean and median) between children of smoking and nonsmoking mothers emerged at 4-5 years of age. The shape and size of age-specific effect estimates for maternal smoking during pregnancy varied by age and sex across the BMI z-score distribution.
,   Sex chromosomes exhibit many unusual patterns in sequence and gene expression relative to autosomes. Birds have evolved a female heterogametic sex system (male ZZ, female ZW), through stepwise suppression of recombination between chrZ and chrW. To address the broad patterns and complex driving forces of Z chromosome evolution, we analyze here 45 newly available bird genomes and four species' transcriptomes, over their course of recombination loss between the sex chromosomes.show Z chromosomes in general have a significantly higher substitution rate in introns and synonymous protein-coding sites than autosomes, driven by the male-to-female mutation bias ('male-driven evolution' effect). Our genome-wide estimate reveals that the degree of such a bias ranges from 1.6 to 3.8 among different species. G + C content of third codon positions exhibits the same trend of gradual changes with that of introns, between chrZ and autosomes or regions with increasing ages of becoming Z-linked, therefore codon usage bias in birds is probably driven by the mutational bias. On the other hand, Z chromosomes also evolve significantly faster at nonsynonymous sites relative to autosomes ('fast-Z' evolution). And species with a lower level of intronic heterozygosities tend to evolve even faster on the Z chromosome. Further analysis of fast-evolving genes' enriched functional categories and sex-biased expression patterns support that, fast-Z evolution in birds is mainly driven by genetic drift. Finally, we show in species except for chicken, gene expression becomes more male-biased within Z-linked regions that have became hemizygous in females for a longer time, suggesting a lack of global dosage compensation in birds, and the reported regional dosage compensation in chicken has only evolved very recently.conclusion, we uncover that the sequence and expression patterns of Z chromosome genes covary with their ages of becoming Z-linked. In contrast to the mammalian X chromosomes, such patterns are mainly driven by mutational bias and genetic drift in birds, due to the opposite sex-biased inheritance of Z vs. X.
,   To explore the association between the 3,144 m/z protein peak and the clinicopathological features and prognosis in breast cancer.ng SELDI-TOF MS, we analyzed serum protein peak at 3,144 m/z in 283 patients with node-positive breast cancer, its relationship with clinicopathological features and their prognosis evaluating value of survival.44 m/z positive rate was higher in elderly patients (42.8 % in ≥50-year-old vs. 31.2 % in <50, P = 0.04). However, no correlation was observed between 3,144 m/z and other clinicopathological features (body mass index, menstrual status, family history, TNM, molecular subtypes, vascular invasion, neural invasion, p53 and CA15-3). However, the positive rate of 3,144 m/z was higher than that of CA15-3 (35.5 vs. 11.4 %, McNemar χ (2) test, p < 0.001). 3,144 m/z-negative patients (n = 177) had a better 3-year overall survival (OS) than 3,144 m/z-positive patients (n = 106) (89.8 vs. 81.2 %, P = 0.045). Younger patients (P = 0.016), postmenopausal status (P = 0.019), small tumor (P < 0.001), less positive nodes (P < 0.001), early stage (P < 0.001), favorable molecular subtype (P = 0.007), normal CA15-3 (P = 0.003) and neoadjuvant chemotherapy (P = 0.001) predicted better survival. Cox analysis showed that T3-4 (95 % CI 1.419-8.057, P = 0.006), lymph node metastasis (95 % CI 1.242-3.632, P = 0.006) and p53 mutation (95 % CI 1.088-6.378, P = 0.032) were independent adverse prognostic factors. But childbirth ≥2 (95 % CI 0.163-0.986, P = 0.046), adjuvant chemotherapy (95 % CI 0.062-0.921, P = 0.038) and adjuvant radiotherapy (95 % CI 0.148-0.928, P = 0.034) were the independent factors in reducing risk of death in breast cancer patients. Combination testing of 3,144 m/z and CA15-3 will improve the prognosis value of 3-year survival (P = 0.011); patients with CA153-/3144- were characterized by the longest survival (89.8 %) and the CA153+/3144+ patients by the shortest.um protein peak at 3,144 m/z is a new biomarker for breast cancer diagnosis and prognosis and showed a higher positive rate than serum CA15-3. Combining 3,144 m/z and CA15-3 testing may improve prognosis of longer survival in breast cancer patients.
,   The extent of conversion of supercoiled pBR322 plasmid DNA to the open circular and linear forms can be measured by HPLC on a Waters Gen Pak FAX column following in vitro gamma irradiation of the DNA. This radiation effect has proven to be useful for the study of the radioprotection of DNA by thiols and other drugs. This system was used with gamma irradiation in air at pH 7.0 and physiological ionic strength to compare radioprotection by a series of thiols, disulfides, and thioethers, all having approximately 10(8) s-1 effective hydroxyl radical scavenging rate (10 mm dm-3 drug) and having net charge (Z) ranging from -2 to +3. All sulfur compounds exhibited substantial protection due to scavenging of hydroxyl radicals in bulk solution but thiols exhibited a 24-fold variation in relative ability to protect the plasmid DNA from strand breaks, as assessed from the dose-response curves: mercaptosuccinate (Z = -2), 0.53; GSH (Z = -1), 0.67; 3-mercaptopropionate (Z = -1) 0.80; mercaptoethanol (Z = 0), 1.00; dithiothreitol (Z = 0), 1.5; cysteamine (Z = +1), 3.7; N-(2-mercaptoethyl)-1,3-diaminopropane (WR-1065, Z = +2), 6.7; N1-(2-mercaptoethyl)spermidine (WR-35980, Z = +3), 12. Comparison of these results with those obtained using disulfide and thioether radioprotectors indicated that local scavenging of hydroxyl radicals near DNA increases slightly with Z, apparently as a result of variations in thiol concentration near DNA, but this accounts for only a small fraction of the change with Z found for cationic thiols. The marked increase in protection found for cationic thiols was attributed to chemical repair of DNA radicals and was in accord with predictions based upon recently measured rates for chemical repair of DNA radicals and was in accord with predictions based upon recently measured rates for chemical repair of pBR322 radicals. It is concluded that chemical repair of DNA radicals by anionic thiols does not compete with the oxygen fixation reaction in air and that protection by these thiols occurs primarily via the scavenging of hydroxyl radicals. However, chemical repair of DNA radicals is significantly enhanced by counterion condensation for cationic thiols and becomes a significant factor in their ability to protect DNA against radiation damage under aerobic conditions.
,   The objectives of this study were to examine the effects of feedlot production systems with and without the use of a β-adrenergic agonist compared to an all-natural production program on feedlot performance and carcass characteristics. Crossbred beef steers ( = 336; initial BW = 379 ± 8 kg) were randomized to 1 of 3 treatments in a randomized complete block design (RCBD; 14 steers/pen; 8 pens/treatment). Treatments consisted of an all-natural treatment (NAT), a conventional treatment (CONV), and a conventional treatment with a β-agonist (CONV-Z). All treatments were fed the same basal diet with NAT cattle receiving no growth promoting technologies. The CONV and CONV-Z cattle were implanted with 40 mg of estradiol and 200 mg of trenbolone acetate (TBA) on d 0 and were fed 33 and 9 mg/kg of monensin and tylosin daily, respectively. The CONV-Z cattle were fed zilpaterol hydrochloride (ZH) at 6.76 mg/kg (90% DM basis) for the last 20 days on feed (DOF) There was no effect of treatment on DMI ( = 0.83); however, CONV-Z steers gained 3.8% faster (1.64 vs. 1.58 kg/d; < 0.01) and were 5.3% more efficient (0.160 vs. 0.152; < 0.01) than CONV steers, and CONV steers gained 32.8% faster (1.58 vs. 1.19 kg/d; < 0.01) and were 26.7% more efficient (0.152 vs. 0.120; < 0.01) than NAT steers. There was a 35.7% improvement in estimated carcass gain (1.29 vs. 0.95 kg/d; < 0.01) and a 32.6% improvement in carcass efficiency (0.126 vs. 0.095; < 0.01) for CONV-Z steers compared to NAT steers. Hot carcass weight was increased by 8 kg for CONV-Z steers compared to CONV steers (394 vs. 386 kg; = 0.05) and 46 kg compared to NAT steers (394 vs. 348 kg; < 0.01). Longissimus muscle area was increased by 3.6 cm for CONV-Z steers compared to CONV steers (92.29 vs. 88.67 cm; = 0.02) and 12.1 cm for CONV-Z steers compared to NAT steers (92.29 vs. 80.16 cm; < 0.01), resulting in a 9.6% unit increase in USDA yield grade (YG) 1 (15.14 vs. 5.52%; < 0.05) and a 21.6% unit reduction in USDA YG 3 for CONV-Z steers compared to CONV steers (30.70 vs. 52.32%; < 0.05). The CONV-Z steers had a lower marbling score compared to the other treatments (432; 0.01), resulting in an 11.7% unit increase (20.70 vs. 9.03%; < 0.05) in USDA Select carcasses compared to CONV steers. The results of this experiment show that CONV-Z and CONV production results in a significant improvement in feedlot performance and USDA YG compared to NAT. 
,   Childhood obesity is associated with biologic and behavioral characteristics that may impact bone mineral density (BMD) and structure. The objective was to determine the association between obesity and bone outcomes, independent of sexual and skeletal maturity, muscle area and strength, physical activity, calcium intake, biomarkers of inflammation, and vitamin D status. Tibia and radius peripheral quantitative CT scans were obtained in 91 obese (BMI>97th percentile) and 51 non-obese adolescents (BMI>5th and <85th percentiles). Results were converted to sex- and race-specific Z-scores relative to age. Cortical structure, muscle area and muscle strength (by dynamometry) Z-scores were further adjusted for bone length. Obese participants had greater height Z-scores (p<0.001), and advanced skeletal maturity (p<0.0001), compared with non-obese participants. Tibia cortical section modulus and calf muscle area Z-scores were greater in obese participants (1.07 and 1.63, respectively, both p<0.0001). Tibia and radius trabecular and cortical volumetric BMD did not differ significantly between groups. Calf muscle area and strength Z-scores, advanced skeletal maturity, and physical activity (by accelerometry) were positively associated with tibia cortical section modulus Z-scores (all p<0.01). Adjustment for muscle area Z-score attenuated differences in tibia section modulus Z-scores between obese and non-obese participants from 1.07 to 0.28. After multivariate adjustment for greater calf muscle area and strength Z-scores, advanced maturity, and less moderate to vigorous physical activity, tibia section modulus Z-scores were 0.32 (95% CI -0.18, 0.43, p=0.06) greater in obese, vs. non-obese participants. Radius cortical section modulus Z-scores were 0.45 greater (p=0.08) in obese vs. non-obese participants; this difference was attenuated to 0.14 with adjustment for advanced maturity. These findings suggest that greater tibia cortical section modulus in obese adolescents is attributable to advanced skeletal maturation and greater muscle area and strength, while less moderate to vigorous physical activities offset the positive effects of these covariates. The impact of obesity on cortical structure was greater at weight bearing sites. 
,   1. Z-7760 (S(-)-N-[N-2-phenylethyl)-6-hexylamino]-N-propyl-5,6-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-naphthylamine dihydrobromide) is a potent dopamine D-1 and D-2 agonist synthesized during a search for agents to treat heart failure. Reported is the fate of the drug in rat. 2. 3H-Z-7760 was administered p.o. and i.v. to male Sprague-Dawley rats (0.4 mg and 400 microCi/kg in 0.1% ascorbic acid) and venous blood samples collected at intervals up to 48 h. Comparison of the AUC for total 3H showed that 37% of an oral dose of Z-7760 was absorbed. The percentage plasma 3H present as the parent compound fell from 82% 30 min after i.v. dosing to 12% after 24 h. After oral dosing, the fraction of plasma 3H present as unchanged Z-7760 was < 5% and this was essentially unaltered throughout the study. The long terminal elimination phase evident from 6 h was notable after both routes of administration. 3. The bile duct-cannulated rat was given 3H-Z-7760 p.o. (0.4 mg and 40 microCi/kg) and bile was collected for up to 22 h. Biliary excretion accounted for 30% of the dose. No parent compound was detected in the bile. 4. In further studies, other rats were dosed p.o. or i.v. with 3H-Z-7760 (0.4 mg and 400 microCi/kg) and urine and faeces were collected daily for 3 days. The major route of excretion was the faeces with 94-97% 3H recovered after oral and 70-73% after i.v. dosing. A further 4-7% was recovered in the urine after oral and 12-13% after i.v. dosing. 5. After oral administration of Z-7760 (100 mg/kg, 40 microCi/kg) to rats, the major metabolites in the urine were identified as the 5-O-methyl and glucuronic acid conjugates of Z-7760 by LC and MS. The glucuronide was only seen in urine after oral administration but 5-O-methyl-Z-7760 was present in urine and faeces after both routes of administration. 6. The low bioavailability of Z-7760 is the consequence of its poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract as well as extensive first-pass metabolism that further reduces systemic blood concentrations after oral administration.
,   (Z)-3,5,4'-Trimethoxystilbene (Z-TMS) is a resveratrol analog with increased antiproliferative activity towards a number of cancer cell lines compared to resveratrol, which has been shown to inhibit tubulin polymerization in vitro. The purpose of this study was to investigate if Z-TMS still shows potential for the prevention of metabolic diseases as known for resveratrol. Cell growth inhibition was determined with IC50 values for Z-TMS between 0.115μM and 0.473μM (resveratrol: 110.7μM to 190.2μM). Flow cytometric analysis revealed a G2/M arrest after Z-TMS treatment, whereas resveratrol caused S phase arrest. Furthermore, Z-TMS was shown to impair microtubule polymerization. Beneficial effects on lipid accumulation were observed for resveratrol, but not for Z-TMS in an in vitro steatosis model. (E)-Resveratrol was confirmed to elevate cAMP levels, and knockdown of AMPK attenuated the antiproliferative activity, while Z-TMS did not show significant effects in these experiments. SIRT1 and AMPK activities were further measured indirectly via induction of the target gene small heterodimer partner (SHP). Thereby, (E)-resveratrol, but not Z-TMS, showed potent induction of SHP mRNA levels in an AMPK- and SIRT1-dependent manner, as confirmed by knockdown experiments. We provide evidence that Z-TMS does not show beneficial metabolic effects, probably due to loss of activity towards resveratrol target genes. Moreover, our data support previous findings that Z-TMS acts as an inhibitor of tubulin polymerization. These findings confirm that the methylation of resveratrol leads to profound changes in the mode of action, which should be taken into consideration when conducting lead structure optimization approaches. 
,   DNA local conformations are thought to play an important biological role in processes such as gene expression by altering DNA-protein interactions. Although left-handed Z-form DNA is one of the best-characterized and significant local structures of DNA, having been extensively investigated for more than two decades, the biological relevance of Z-form DNA remains unclear. This is presumably due to the lack of a versatile detection method in a living cell. Previously, we demonstrated that the incorporation of a methyl group at the guanine C8 position (m(8)G) dramatically stabilizes the Z-form of short oligonucleotides in a variety of sequences. To develop a photochemical method to detect Z-form DNA, we examined the photoreaction of 5-iodouracil-containing Z-form d(CGCG(I)UGCG)(ODN 1)/d(Cm(8)GCAm(8)GCG)(ODN 2) in 2 M NaCl and found stereospecific C2'alpha-hydroxylation occurred at G(4) to provide d(CGCrGUGCG), 5. Recently, Rich and co-workers [Schwartz et al. Science 1999, 284, 1841. Schwartz et al. Nat. Struct. Biol. 2001, 8, 761] found that an ubiquitous RNA editing enzyme, adenosine deaminase 1 (ADAR1), and tumor-associated protein DML-1 specifically bind to Z-form DNA. In the present study, we investigate the photoreactivity of octanucleotide ODN 1-2 in Z-form induced by Zalpha, which is the NH(2)-terminal domain of ADAR1 responsible for tight binding of ADAR1. Detailed product analysis revealed that the C2'alpha-hydroxylated products 5 and 6 produced significantly higher yields in Z-form ODN 1-2 induced by Zalpha compared with that in 2 M NaCl. Upon treatment with ribonuclease T1, 5 and 6 were quantitatively hydrolyzed at the 3'-phosphodiester bond of the rG residue to provide d(UGCG) as a common hydrolyzed fragment on the 3' side. Quantitative analysis demonstrated that the amount of photochemically formed 5 and 6 from ODN 1-2 directly correlated with the proportion of Z-form induced by Zalpha or NaCl. These results suggest that this photochemical and enzymatic procedure can be used as a specific probe for the existence of local Z-form structure in cellular DNA.
,   The photoaffinity analogue ethidium monoazide was used to prepare samples of poly(dGdC).poly(dGdC) containing covalently attached ethidium. The effects of both noncovalently and covalently bound ethidium on the kinetics of the NaCl-induced B to Z transition in poly(dGdC).poly(dGdC) was examined using absorbance and fluorescence spectroscopy to monitor the reaction. Covalently and noncovalently attached ethidium were equal in the extent to which they reduce the rate of the B to Z transition. By using fluorescence to selectively monitor the fate of noncovalently bound ethidium over the course of the transition, we found that ethidium completely dissociates as the reaction proceeds, but at a rate that lags behind the conversion of the polymer to the Z form. These experiments provide evidence for the redistribution of noncovalently bound ethidium over the course of the B to Z transition, leading to the development of biphasic reaction kinetics. The observed kinetics suggest that the primary effect of both covalently and noncovalently bound ethidium is on the nucleation step of the B to Z transition. The reduction in the rate of the B to Z transition by noncovalently or covalently bound ethidium may be quantitatively explained as resulting from the reduced probability of finding a drug-free length of helix long enough for nucleation to occur. As necessary ancillary experiments, the defined length deoxyoligonucleotides (dGdC)4, (dGdC)5, and (dGdC)6 were synthesized and used in kinetic experiments designed to determine the nucleation length of the B to Z transition, which was found to be 6 bp. The activation energy of the B to Z transition was demonstrated to be independent of the amount of covalently bound ethidium and was found to be 21.2 +/- 1.1 kcal mol-1. Covalent attachment of ethidium was observed to increase the rate of the reverse Z to B transition, presumably by locking regions of the polymer into a right-handed conformation and thereby providing nucleation sites from which the Z to B conversion may propagate.
,   Antibodies reactive with left-handed Z-DNA arise spontaneously in the sera of patients with SLE and rheumatoid arthritis and in autoimmune MRL mice. However, the precise specificity of these autoantibodies has not been established. In this report, we have characterized four monoclonal anti-Z-DNA antibodies from unimmunized MRL/Mp-lpr/lpr mice that do not cross-react with B-DNA and can discriminate between different types of left-handed helices. Two of the monoclonal antibodies (Za and Zi) behaved similarly in that they bound to two forms of Z-DNA (Br-poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) and AAF-poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) but not to two other Z-form DNA (poly(dG-5BrdC).poly(dG-5BrdC) or poly(dG-5MedC).poly(dG-5MedC)). Neither antibody (Za or Zi) bound significantly to B-DNA or to denatured DNA. A third antibody (Ze) exhibited similar binding characteristics for the Z-DNA preparations, but also recognized denatured DNA. In contrast, a fourth antibody (3-7.3) bound preferentially to poly(dG-5BrC).poly(dG-5BrdC) in Z conformation. These results provide the first evidence for anti-Z-DNA autoantibodies in autoimmune mice that do not cross-react with native or denatured DNA and indicate that these antibodies exhibit considerable heterogeneity in their fine binding specificity.
,   This paper considers the oscillation on meromorphic solutions of the second-order linear differential equations with the form f'' + A(z)f = 0, where A(z) is a meromorphic function with [p, q]-order. We obtain some theorems which are the improvement and generalization of the results given by Bank and Laine, Cao and Li, Kinnunen, and others. 
,   An efficient synthetic approach to benzoheterocycles has been developed based on the hydrolysis of key ylide intermediates in a tandem reaction, upon which a variety of 3-alkylidene dihydrobenzofurans and related benzoheterocyclic products can be obtained in high yields with excellent Z/E selectivity. 
,   A highly efficient synthesis of a wide range of 2,5-disubstituted pyrazines from (Z)-β-haloenol acetates is described. The reactions are conducted under convenient conditions and provide products with excellent regioselectivity in moderate to excellent yields with a broad substrate scope, including a variety of aromatic and aliphatic haloenol acetates. 
,   [structure: see text] The first total synthesis of gambierol, a marine polycyclic ether toxin, has been achieved. The synthesis features the Pd(PPh3)4/CuCl/LiCl-promoted Stille coupling for the stereoselective construction of the sensitive triene side chain that includes a conjugated (Z,Z)-diene moiety.
,   Synthesis and biological activity of 7- and 9-isomers (Z+E) of methylenecyclopropane analogues of 2-aminopurine nucleosides is described. The (S,Z)-9-isomer is a substrate for xanthine oxidase.
,   2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene (TNT), an extensively used and versatile explosive, is harmful in soil and water. In the present study, four bacterial strains capable of degrading TNT have been isolated from contaminated sites and named as Thu-A, Thu-B, Thu-C, and Thu-Z. Thu-Z, which gave the highest degradation efficiency compared to the others, was assigned to the genus Pantoea according to its 16S rRNA gene. Similarities in both biochemical properties and morphology suggested that Thu-Z was a Pantoea sp. strain. Thu-Z was proved to be capable of using TNT as a sole nitrogen source by cleaving NO(2) from the nitroaromatic ring by direct aromatic ring reduction. Under nitrogen-limited conditions, 96.6 % N of TNT was consumed by Thu-Z for growth, which was determined in terms of NaNO(2). Trace nitro reduction metabolites such as 2,4-diamino-6-nitrotoluene (24Dam) and 2,6-diamino-4-nitrotoluene (26Dam) were identified in the presence of (NH(4))(2)SO(4). On the other hand, 4,4',6,6'-tetranitro-2,2'-azoxytoluene (22Azo) and 2,2',6,6'-tetranitro-4,4'-azoxytoluene (44Azo) were detected in the absence of (NH(4))(2)SO(4). These indicated the existence of a dual pathway for Thu-Z, while the direct aromatic ring reduction was predominant. Addition of a nitrogen source ((NH(4))(2)SO(4)) after inoculation stimulated the growth of Thu-Z and accelerated TNT degradation.
,   A method to obtain (Z)-beta,gamma-unsaturated nitriles in high or good yields and with moderate or high stereoselectivity is described. The products were achieved through the photoinduced metalation of 3-acetoxy-4-chloronitriles with SmI2. The starting compounds were readily prepared, and a mechanism is proposed to explain this stereoselective beta-elimination reaction.
,   [structure: see text] Triphenylamine derivatives have been synthesized and shown to exhibit large two-photon cross-sections at a wide range of wavelengths and the largest value measured by fs Z-scan experiment. Moreover, a linear relationship is noted between the two-photon cross-sections measured by ns fluorescence and fs Z-scan methods.
,   Functionalized (Z,E)-1-halo-1,3-dienol esters are synthesized in a highly stereoselective manner via CrCl2-mediated rearrangement of allylic trihalomethylcarbinol esters induced by microwave irradiation.
,   The 26 S proteasome is an evolutionarily conserved ATP-dependent protease complex that degrades poly-ubiquitinated proteins and plays essential roles in a critical part of cellular regulation. In vertebrates, the roles of the proteasome have been widely studied by use of specific inhibitors, but not genetically. Here, we generated a cell line Z(-/-/-)/Z-HA, in which the expression of the catalytic subunit of the proteasome, Z (beta2) could be manipulated. This cell line expresses exogenous Z protein under the control of a tetracycline-repressible promoter in a Z-nullizygous genetic background. Treatment of these cells with doxycycline inhibited Z expression and, hence, the function of the proteasome. The latter resulted in accumulation of poly-ubiquitinated proteins and concomitant induction of molecular chaperones Hsp70 and Hsp40. These results suggest a synergistic role for the proteasome with these molecular chaperones to eliminate misfolded or damaged proteins in vivo. Furthermore, knockdown of the proteasome induced apoptotic cell death following cell-cycle arrest at G(2)/M phase. Our Z(-/-/-)/Z-HA cell line would be useful for evaluating proteolytic processes catalyzed by the proteasome in many biological events in vertebrate cells.
,   Cytochrome P-450 enzymes have been implicated in the oxidative catabolism of all-trans-retinoic acid (RA), a process that is accelerated by exposure to RA in cultured cells and rodents, and also in patients receiving RA as treatment for cancer (J.F.R. Muindi et al., Cancer Res., 52: 2138, 1992; Blood, 79: 299, 1992). Accelerated oxidation of RA could arise from an induction of RA-catabolizing P-450 isoforms or from an increase in oxidative cofactors. We have examined the efficiency of NADPH/O2 and lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH) to support oxidation of RA using human cell microsomes genetically enriched in different P-450 isoforms. The observed rate of RA oxidation using the NADPH/O2 system was slow for all isoforms (6-23 pmol/mg protein/min). LOOH-mediated oxidation was much faster (24-1078 pmol/mg protein/min), not isoform specific, but dependent upon the chemical nature of the LOOH. The order of efficiency of RA oxidation using LOOH was 13-hydroperoxy[S-(E,Z)]-9,11-octadecadienoic acid > 5-hydroperoxy[S-(E,Z,Z,Z)]-6,6,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid > prostaglandin G2 > cumene hydroperoxide > tert-butylhydroperoxide > H2O2. Whereas submicromolar concentrations of 13-hydroperoxy[S-(E,Z)]- 9,11-octadecadienoic and 5-hydroperoxy[S-(E,Z,Z,Z)]-6,6,11,14- eicosatetraenoic acid oxidized RA at appreciable rates, micromolar concentrations were required for the other LOOH. These observations suggest that physiological LOOH, generated by the arachidonic acid-lipoxygenase system, may be involved in the self-induced oxidative catabolism of RA.
,   In five patients with acute respiratory insufficiency the changes in tracheal pressure (P), lung volume (V) and transthoracic electric impedance TEI (Z) were measured during delayed expiration all over the inspiratory capacity (IC) from TLC to FRC. The quasi-static V/Z- and Z/P-curves were two-dimensionally displayed, and the Z/P-curve was volume-calibrated on the Y-axis (Z) using the linear V/Z-relationship. During high-frequency jet ventilation (HFJV, 200/min), the Z- and P-excursions were displayed on the "frozen" Z/P-curve as flat discs. By well-aimed increase in driving pressure and I/E-ratio the unknown FRC was enhanced in 4 stages (I-IV) by 0.33 IC, 0.5 IC, 0.66 IC and 0.75 IC, to measure haemodynamic reactions 10 minutes later (Swan-Ganz catheter). The pulmonary vascular resistance remained unchanged between stage I and II. It changed moderately in stage III (+14%) and was found to be markedly increased in stage IV (+45%). The increase in PVR was well parabolically correlated (r = 0.88) to the fraction of IC by which FRC was expanded. In a previous study a very similar function could be documented by us for the end-inspiratory lung volume during conventional PEEP ventilation. Concomitant to the increase in PVR the CI fell linearilly (r = 0.95). We conclude from our results: 1. TEI may be of value in monitoring HFJV. It offers the possibility to measure the increase in lung volume ("PEEP effect") and to titrate it deliberately within the usable volume range IC. 2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   Small studies have linked α1 antitrypsin (α1AT) deficiency to patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV).test the validity and the mechanism of this association between α1AT and AAV. distribution of α1AT deficiency alleles Z and S was compared between 856 White Europeans with AAV and 1505 geographic and ethnically matched healthy controls. Genotyping was performed by allelic discrimination assay.e compared between cases and controls using χ(2) tests. The serum and renal biopsies for α1AT polymers were compared using the polymer-specific 2C1 antibody. The role of α1AT polymers in promoting inflammation was investigated by examining their ability to prime neutrophils for ANCA activation as assessed by CD62L shedding, superoxide production and myeloperoxidase degranulation. Results The Z but not the S allele was over-represented in the patients compared with controls (HR=2.25, 95% CI 1.60 to 3.19). Higher concentrations of polymers of α1AT were detected in serum from patients carrying the Z allele than in those not carrying the Z allele (median (IQR) 1.40 (0.91-3.32) mg/dl vs 0.17 (0.06-0.28) mg/dl, p<0.001); polymers of α1AT were also seen in the renal biopsy of a patient with vasculitic glomerulonephritis. Polymers of α1AT primed neutrophils with CD62L shedding and increased superoxide production following ANCA activation. Carriage of the Z allele was not associated with disease severity, survival or relapse. Z but not the S deficiency allele is associated with AAV. Polymers of α1AT are present in the serum and glomeruli of at least some patients with the Z allele, which may promote inflammation through priming of neutrophils.
,   Titanium-catalyzed intermolecular hydroaminations of (E/Z)-chloroenynes enabled an efficient pyrrole synthesis, which set the stage for the development of a user-friendly one-pot reaction for the regioselective preparation of fully substituted pyrroles from easily accessible alpha-haloalkynols.
,   Zaprionus indianus is a drosophilid native to the Afrotropical region that has colonized South America and exhibits a wide geographical distribution. In contrast, Z. sepsoides is restricted to certain African regions. The two species differ in the size of their testes, which are larger in Z. indianus than in Z. sepsoides. To better understand the biology and the degree of differentiation of these species, the current study evaluated spermatogenesis in males of different ages by conventional staining techniques and ultrastructural analysis. Spermatogenesis and the ultrastructure of spermatozoa were similar in the two species, and the diploid number was confirmed to be 2n = 12. A greater number of spermatozoa were observed in young Z. indianus (1-3 days old) compared to Z. sepsoides males, which showed a higher frequency of cells at the early stages of spermatogenesis. The head of the sperm was strongly marked by silver staining, lacto-acetic orcein and the Feulgen reaction; the P.A.S. reaction revealed glycogen granules in the testes of both species. Both species presented similar arrangement of microtubules (9+9+2), two mitochondrial derivatives of different size and 64 spermatozoa per bundle. Such similarity within the genus Zaprionus with other species of Drosophila, indicates that these structures are conserved in the family Drosophilidae. The differences observed the number and frequency of sperm cells in the early stages of spermatogenesis, between the young males of Z. indianus and Z. sepsoides, are features that may interfere with reproductive success and be related to the invasive potential of Z. indianus.
,   The geometrical characteristics of a DNA molecule in a supercoiled state has been analyzed. The possibility of the B-Z-transition in the strand of the DNA molecule has been established. The influence of the corner strand on differential-geometric and topological characteristics of the DNA molecule has been investigated.
,   Collision-induced dissociation (CID) of deprotonated hexose-containing disaccharides (m/z 341) with 1-2, 1-4, and 1-6 linkages yields product ions at m/z 221, which have been identified as glycosyl-glycolaldehyde anions. From disaccharides with these linkages, CID of m/z 221 ions produces distinct fragmentation patterns that enable the stereochemistries and anomeric configurations of the non-reducing sugar units to be determined. However, only trace quantities of m/z 221 ions can be generated for 1-3 linkages in Paul or linear ion traps, preventing further CID analysis. Here we demonstrate that high intensities of m/z 221 ions can be built up in the linear ion trap (Q3) from beam-type CID of a series of 1-3 linked disaccharides conducted on a triple quadrupole/linear ion trap mass spectrometer. (18)O-labeling at the carbonyl position of the reducing sugar allowed mass-discrimination of the "sidedness" of dissociation events to either side of the glycosidic linkage. Under relatively low energy beam-type CID and ion trap CID, an m/z 223 product ion containing (18)O predominated. It was a structural isomer that fragmented quite differently than the glycosyl-glycolaldehydes and did not provide structural information about the non-reducing sugar. Under higher collision energy beam-type CID conditions, the formation of m/z 221 ions, which have the glycosyl-glycolaldehyde structures, were favored. Characteristic fragmentation patterns were observed for each m/z 221 ion from higher energy beam-type CID of 1-3 linked disaccharides and the stereochemistry of the non-reducing sugar, together with the anomeric configuration, were successfully identified both with and without (18)O-labeling of the reducing sugar carbonyl group.
,   Malnutrition frequently complicates end-stage liver disease and orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in pediatric patients. Pretransplant malnutrition has been associated with increased post-OLT mortality and length of stay in adults. The relationship between pre-OLT nutritional status and post-OLT outcomes in pediatric liver transplant recipients, however, is not well studied. records of 65 pediatric patients who underwent OLT at a single institution were reviewed. Univariate analyses were used to investigate the relationship between anthropomorphic data (expressed as z-scores) and post-OLT hospital length-of-stay, hospital costs and clinical outcomes. A multivariate model was then used to identify peri-OLT variables independently correlated with post-OLT length-of-stay.ecreased height z-score was correlated with an increased post-OLT hospital length-of-stay (r = -0.30; P = 0.015) and increased hospital costs (r = -0.49; P = 0.0004). The mean length-of-stay was 20.5 days for patients with a height z-score of <-1.5 and 10.7 days for patients with a height z-score of >1.5 (P = 0.038). Likewise, hospital costs were about $40,000 higher (25% increased) for patients with growth retardation. A weak direct correlation was seen between weight z-score and post-OLT length-of-stay (r = 0.18; P = 0.15). Height z-score, biliary atresia and pre-OLT protime were independently and significantly correlated with post-OLT length-of-stay in a multivariate model.ght z-score is a better indicator of pretransplant malnutrition than weight z-score. Pretransplant growth retardation is associated with increased post-OLT hospital length-of-stay and increased hospitalization costs.
,   Many phytochemicals may ameliorate neurological disorders through a hormetic mechanism. The aim of this study was to characterize the hormetic role of Z-ligustilide in PC12 cells against oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) induced cell death. We examined the interactions of Z-ligustilide with the pro-survival signals mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and transcription factor nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathways. We also investigated the effect of Z-ligustilide on the intracellular redox signaling system involving reactive oxygen species (ROS) and glutathione (GSH). Z-ligustilide not only triggered stress response by causing ROS formation and transient GSH depletion, but also activated survival-promoting signals via cross-talking of PI3K and Nrf2 pathways. A key finding was that Z-ligustilide preconditioning protected PC12 cells from OGD-induced injury either at a low concentration for a prolonged period of time or at a high concentration for a short period of time. Presumably, mild preconditioning stimulated moderate ROS production, but effectively activated hormetic signals and induced stress responsive genes. In contrast, higher concentrations of Z-ligustilide could be toxic over a prolonged period of time due to massive ROS production. These results suggest that the effect of Z-ligustilide may be regulated by a biphasic hormetic mechanism involving initial induction of oxidative stress and subsequent activation of stress response gene expression.
,   To demonstrate that the waist-height ratio (WHtR) is a simple and effective screening tool that could be used to identify obese children with the metabolic syndrome.a from 109 obese boys and girls, aged 10.00-16.50 years, who were recruited as part of the Eat Smart study were analysed. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure, blood lipids (total cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), high- and low-density lipoproteins), insulin, glucose, height, weight and waist circumference (WC) were collected. These measurements were used to calculate WHtR, body mass index (BMI), Z-scores for BMI, WC, weight and homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). Correlations between anthropometric measures and blood pressure, lipids, insulin, glucose and HOMA-IR were assessed. Binary logistic regression was used to test which anthropometric measure was a significant predictor of the metabolic syndrome.ng boys, WHtR was negatively correlated with glucose (P < 0.05); WHtR and BMI Z-score were positively correlated with insulin, HOMA-IR and TG (P < 0.05) and WC Z-score was significantly correlated with age. Among girls, WHtR, BMI Z-score and WC Z-score were positively correlated with insulin and HOMA-IR and negatively correlated with high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (P < 0.05), whereas BMI Z-score was significantly correlated with SBP and DBP Z-scores. Twenty per cent of subjects were classified as having the metabolic syndrome, with WHtR, BMI Z-score and HOMA-IR being significant predictors. WHtR is a significant predictor of the metabolic syndrome in obese youth. The WHtR is the simplest index to calculate and interpret, making it an ideal non-invasive screening tool to use in clinical practice.
,   In the present study, we estimated the association between pregnancy glucose levels and offspring body mass index (BMI) z scores at 2, 3.5, 5, and 7 years of age, as well as z score trajectories across this age range, among Mexican-American women without diabetes or gestational diabetes. Beginning in 1999-2000, the Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas prospectively followed women from Monterey County, California (52 obese and 214 nonobese women) and their children. Plasma glucose values obtained 1 hour after a 50-g oral glucose load comprised the exposure. Offspring BMIs were compared with national data to calculate z scores. Increasing pregnancy glucose levels were associated with increased offspring BMI z scores at 7 years of age; a 1-mmol/L increase in glucose corresponded to an increase of 0.11 (standard deviation = 0.044) z-score units (P < 0.05). In nonobese women only, the mean z score over this age range increased with increasing glucose levels. The average BMI z score at 4.5 years of age increased by 0.12 (standard error, 0.059) units for each 1-mmol/L increase in glucose (P = 0.04). In obese women only, increasing glucose was associated with increases in BMI z score over time (P = 0.07). Whether interventions to reduce glucose values in women free of disease could mitigate childhood obesity remains unknown.
,   Tissue level characteristics of bone can be measured by nanoindentation and microspectroscopy, but are challenging to translate to whole bone mechanical behavior in this hierarchically structured material. The current study calculated weighted section moduli from microCT attenuation values based on tissue level relationships (Z(lin,a) and Z(lin,b)) between mineralization and material properties to predict whole bone mechanical behavior. Z(lin,a) was determined using the equation of the best fit linear regression between indentation modulus from nanoindentation and mineral:matrix ratio from Raman spectroscopy. To better represent the modulus of unmineralized tissue, a second linear regression with the intercept fixed at 0 was used to calculate Z(lin,b). The predictive capability of the weighted section moduli calculated using a tissue level relationship was compared with average tissue level properties and weighted section moduli calculated using an apparent level relationship (Z(exp)) between Young's Modulus and mineralization. A range of bone mineralization was created using vitamin D deficiency in growing rats. After 10 weeks, left femurs were scanned using microCT and tested to failure in 3 point bending. Contralateral limbs were used for co-localized tissue level mechanical properties by nanoindentation and compositional measurements by Raman microspectroscopy. Vitamin D deficiency reduced whole bone stiffness and strength by ∼35% and ∼30%, respectively, but only reduced tissue mineral density by ∼10% compared with Controls. Average tissue level properties did not correlate with whole bone mechanical behavior while Z(lin,a), Z(lin,b), and Z(exp) predicted 54%, 66%, and 80% of the failure moment respectively. This study demonstrated that in a model for varying mineralization, the composite beam model in this paper is an improved method to extrapolate tissue level data to macro-scale mechanical behavior.
,   This study of Zamia in Puerto Rico is the most intensive population genetics investigation of a cycad to date in terms of number of markers, and one of few microsatellite DNA studies of plants from the highly critical Caribbean biodiversity hotspot. Three distinctive Zamia taxa occur on the island: Z. erosa on the north coast, and Z. portoricensis and Z. pumila, both in the south. Their relationships are largely unknown. We tested three hypotheses about their genetic diversity, including the possibility of multiple introductions.used 31 microsatellite loci across 10 populations and analyzed the data with AMOVA, Bayesian clustering, and ABC coalescent modeling.rto Rican zamias exhibit an amalgam of patterns of genetic differentiation that have been reported for cycads. Overall, the taxa are slightly inbred, with high infra-populational variation and little evidence of recent bottlenecks. Zamia erosa exhibits a more than threefold greater degree of population differentiation than the other two taxa. Admixture is evident only between Z. portoricensis and Z. pumila. Zamia portoricensis is inferred to be the youngest taxon on the island, on the basis of estimates of coalescence time and effective population size. A selective sweep may be underway in a small population of Z. erosa in a saline environment.ia erosa may represent an independent introduction into Puerto Rico; Z. portoricensis and Z. pumila fit a scenario of allopatric speciation. This will be explored further in the context of genetic analysis across the entire Caribbean region.
,   The influence of pre-natal conditions on later type 2 diabetes risk factors such as insulin resistance (IR) may be mediated by post-natal growth trajectory. We aimed to investigate the association of body size at birth and 9 years with IR at 9 years. Using data from a prospective Australian cohort study, we examined the influence of body size from birth to 9 years [z-score for weight or body mass index (BMI)] on IR at 9 years (estimated by homeostasis model assessment). At age 9 years, 151 children provided a fasting blood sample. z-BMI at age 9 was positively associated with IR. Birth z-BMI was inversely associated with IR only after adjustment for z-BMI at age 9 years. This may be interpreted as an effect of accelerated growth between birth and 9 years on IR. There was a statistically significant interaction between birth and 9-year z-BMI. Results from regression models including z-BMI at all available time points (birth, 6 and 12 months, and 2, 3.5 and 9 years) indicate a possible inverse association between body size at 3.5 years and HOMA-IR at 9 years. Results were similar when the analyses were repeated with z-weight substituted for z-BMI. These results add to the body of evidence concerning the importance of growth in early life for later IR, and highlight a possible interaction between pre- and post-natal growth. The potential influence of growth at around 3.5 years for HOMA-IR at 9 years warrants further investigation.
,   To determine whether relatively low leptin levels predict changes in adiposity in prepubertal and pubertal obese children.a biracial cohort of 68 obese children (33 male and 35 female; 46 Caucasians and 22 African-Americans, age range 7-18 y), we measured at baseline fasting insulin and leptin levels, height and weight and calculated body mass index (kg/m(2)) and expressed body mass index as (BMI) Z-score. After a 2.5-y follow-up, anthropometric measurements were repeated and changes in weight gain were calculated as changes in BMI Z-score.baseline obese preadolescent boys and girls had similar age and BMI Z-score, fasting insulin and leptin levels. After an average follow-up of 2.5 y, mean weight change calculated by changes in BMI Z-score from baseline was similar in both groups. In obese adolescent boys and girls at baseline, no significant gender differences were observed for BMI Z-score and insulin levels. In contrast, plasma leptin levels were significantly higher in obese girls compared with obese adolescent boys. At follow-up, there was no significant difference in change in BMI Z-score between obese boys and girls. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that high basal leptin levels were positively associated with greater changes in BMI Z-score only in girls (r(2)=0.18, P<0.02), after adjusting for basal BMI Z-score, Tanner stage, years of follow-up and basal insulin. High basal leptin levels in girls explained 18% of the weight gain.h leptin levels are associated with excessive future weight gain only in girls.
,   The asymmetric unit of the title compound, C(20)H(24)N(2), contains one half -mol-ecule which exhibits a crystallographically imposed center of symmetry. The benzene rings are inclined to the 1,4-diaza-butadiene mean plane by 78.3 (2)°.
,   In the title compound, C(18)H(18)Cl(2)N(2), the complete molecule is generated by the application of C(2) symmetry. The C=N bond has an E configuration. The dihedral angle between the benzene ring and the 1,4-diaza-butadiene plane is 66.81 (9)°.
,   Using 1-(4-styryl)-3-(3-nitrophenyl)urea as host monomer for the imprinting of Z-(D or L)-Glu, a polymeric receptor exhibiting strong enantioselectivity and a change in color intensity upon binding of the guest was obtained.
,   The asymmetric unit of the title compound, C20H24N2, contains one half-mol-ecule, with the single C-C bond of the 1,4-di-aza-butadiene fragment situated on a centre of symmetry. The benzene rings are inclined to the 1,4-di-aza-butadiene mean plane by 59.5 (1)°. 
,   Highly stereoselective (Z)-silyl enol ethers were prepared from alkyl aryl ketones and trimethylsilyldiazomethane (TMSD) using an oxazaborolidinium ion catalyst. In addition, ring-expanded silyl enol ethers were successfully constructed from cyclic ketones. Their synthetic utilities were shown by sequential Mukaiyama aldol and [2 + 2]-cycloaddition reactions. 
,   Disturbances in hemostasis are common complications of kidney diseases. Both bleeding diathesis and thromboembolism may complicate the course of chronic uremia. As far as we know, there is a limited data about protein Z in kidney disease. aim of our work was to examine plasma protein Z and vitamin K concentrations in nephrotic syndrome (n = 34), glomerulonephritis (n = 48), kidney transplant recipients (n = 80), peritoneally dialyzed patients (n = 42) and in the healthy volunteers (n = 27).amin K was significantly lower in nephrotic syndrome when compared to non-nephrotic patients, CAPD and healthy volunteers (p < 0.05). Protein Z was the highest in CAPD and kidney transplant recipients when compared to any other group. In nephrotic syndrome protein Z was significantly lower when compared to the healthy volunteers, but it did not differ significantly between two groups of patients with chronic renal failure (with and without nephrotic syndrome). Protein Z correlated only with fibrinogen in CAPD, glomerulonephritis and nephrotic patients. Vitamin K correlated with age and albumin in patients with glomerulonephritis, nephrotic syndrome as well as with albumin in CAPD.erations in protein Z might contribute to the enhanced risk of thromboembolic complications in nephrotic syndrome, CAPD and Tx via different and unknown mechanisms. This phenomenon seems to be unrelated to vitamin K status in these patients.
,   The tripeptide Z-GlyPheLeuNH2 was continuously synthesized in a high yield from three amino acid derivatives, Z-Gly, PheOMe, and LeuNH2, by immobilized thermolysin (IMT) and immobilized alpha-chymotrypsin (IMC) in an organic solvent, ethyl acetate. The optimal conditions for the synthesis of Z-GlyPheOMe were established theoretically. The yield of Z-GlyPheOMe with IMT in ethyl acetate saturated with buffer was more than 88% after continuous synthesis for 116 hr. The optimal conditions for the synthesis of Z-GlyPheLeuNH2 from Z-GlyPheOMe and LeuNH2 by IMC through transesterification was established in batch reaction experiments. When the concentration of water in the reaction solution was 17-20 microliters/ml, the activity of IMC was highest. The equilibrium between the water concentration in the reaction solution and that in the resin used for enzyme immobilization depended on the resin and was not affected by the presence of the enzyme immobilized. Z-GlyPheLeuNH2 was synthesized from Z-GlyPheOMe and LeuNH2 with a yield of 100%, by continuous reaction for 160 hr. The reactor for synthesis of this tripeptide was efficient and stable because of the use of transesterification and the choice of an appropriate organic solvent. The series plug-flow reactor was successfully operated for 220 hr with a yield of more than 80%. The residual activity of IMT was 94% and that of IMC was 100%.
,   11 alpha-Hydroxy-9,15-dioxo-2,3,4,5,20-pentanor-19-carboxyprostano ic acid (PGE-M) and 9 alpha,11 alpha-dihydroxy-15-oxo-2,3,4,5,20-pentanor-19-carboxyprostanoic acid (PGF-M) in urine were determined in an isotope dilution assay by gas chromatography/triple-stage quadrupole mass spectrometry. After addition of the 2H7-labeled internal standard, O-methylhydroxylamine hydrochloride in acetate buffer was added either directly (PGE-M) or after standing overnight at pH 10 (PGF-M) to form the methoxime. The sample was acidified to pH 2.5 and PGE-M and PGF-M were extracted with ethyl acetate/hexane. Then the prostanoids were derivatized to the pentafluorobenzyl ester and purified by thin-layer chromatography and the trimethylsilyl ether was formed. The products were quantified by gas chromatography/triple-stage quadrupole mass spectrometry. For PGE-M, the fragment ions m/z 349 and m/z 356 (2H7 standard) (daughter ions of m/z 637 and m/z 644 (2H7 standard] were used. The results of the PGE-M assay were compared with those of an assay using the [2H3]methoxime as the internal standard. For determination of PGF-M, the daughter ions m/z 484 and m/z 491 (2H7 standard) with the parent ions m/z 682 and m/z 689 (2H7 standard) were chosen.
,   Two strains of a novel anaerobic, protein- and nucleoside-utilizing bacterium, Z-910(T) and Z-810, were isolated. The strains were spore-forming, mainly nonmotile rods, exhibiting positive Gram reaction with Gram-positive cell wall structure. The strains were mesophilic and haloalkaliphilic. Cultures used proteins and proteinaceous substrates as carbon, nitrogen, and energy sources. Both strains used also ribonucleosides, cellobiose, pyruvate, and glycerol. Ribose and nucleobases did not support growth. The fermentation products from all utilized substrates were identical but varied in content and included straight and branched acids, as well as hydrogen and ammonia. When grown on tryptone, strain Z-910(T) was able to reduce fumarate, dimethyl sulfoxide, thiosulfate, and elemental sulfur. Neither nitrate nor sulfate was reduced. The DNA G + C content of strain Z-910(T) was 32.2 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity revealed that strains Z-910(T) and Z-810 represented a new branch within the order Clostridiales, with 90.2 % similarity to the nearest genus with a validly published name Anaerobranca gottschalkii DSM 13577(T). According to their physiological, chemotaxonomic, and phylogenetic properties, strains Z-910(T) and Z-810 represented a new genus and novel species, for which the name Proteinivorax tanatarense gen. nov., sp. nov. was proposed. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the genera Proteinivorax gen. nov. and Anaerobranca formed a separate cluster within the order Clostridiales. The family Proteinivoraceae fam. nov. comprising the genera Proteinivorax gen. nov. and Anaerobranca was therefore proposed within the order Clostridiales of the phylum Firmicutes with Proteinivorax as a type genus of the new family.
,   A simultaneous determination method of saccharin (SA), sorbic acid (SOA), benzoic acid (BA), p-hydroxybenzoic acid ethyl (PHBA-Et), p-hydroxybenzoic acid isopropyl (PHBA-isoPr), p-hydroxybenzoic acid propyl (PHBA-Pr), p-hydroxybenzoic acid isobutyl (PHBA-isoBu) and p-hydroxybenzoic acid butyl (PHBA-Bu) in foods by HPLC was examined. A mixture of acetonitrile-water (1:1) was used to extract these additives from foods excluding liquid foods, while acetonitrile was used to extract them from liquid foods. HPLC was performed using a TSKgel ODS80Ts (4.6 mm i.d. x 150 mm) column with a mobile phase of 0.01% formic acid solution containing 2 mmol/L-di-n-butyl (or amyl) ammonium acetate (A) and acetonitrile (B) under the following conditions: A/B = 8: 2 (0-8 min) --> 6: 4 (15-32 min). Recoveries of these additives spiked in foods were 78-120%. The determination limits were 10 microg/g. As the identification method, examination by liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS/MS) was used. Unknown compounds were identified by detection of product ions from their precursor ions in the negative mode with multiple reaction monitoring, m/z 182 > 106 for SA, m/z 121 > 77 for BA, m/z 111 > 67 for SOA and m/z 165 > 92 for PHBA-Et. Ratios of intensity of m/z 179 > 137 to m/z 179 > 92 were used for identification of isomers PHBA-isoPr and PHBA-Pr, and the ratios of intensity of m/z 193 > 137 to m/z 193 > 92 were used for isomers PHBA-isoBu and PHBA-Bu, because these isomers have very similar (Received December 12, 2006)
,   A simple method is proposed to calculate bilayer lipid membrane (BLM) thickness using measurements of BLM reflectivity. BLM is considered to be nonhomogenous with the refractive index n = n(z)--a function of coordinate z normal to the membrane plane. The membrane thickness obtained with this method is 4 divided by 6% less than that obtained with the standard method.
,   The ligands associated with various Pd catalysts play a crucial role in determining the stereochemistry of cross-couplings between boronic acids and Z-alkenyl halides. A ligand on palladium has been found that leads to the desired products under mild conditions and in high yields that, in most cases, retain their Z-olefin geometry.
,   The physical and covalent binding of the carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-oxide (BaPDE) to poly(dG-dC).(dG-dC) and poly(dG-m5dC).(dG-m5dC) in the B and Z forms were studied utilizing absorbance, fluorescence and linear dichroism techniques. In the case of poly(dG-dC).(dG-dC) the decrease in the covalent binding of BaPDE with increasing NaCl concentration (0.1-4 M) as the B form is transformed to the Z form is attributed to the effects of high ionic strengths on the reactivity and physical binding of BaPDE to the polynucleotides; these effects tend to obscure differences in reactivities with the B and Z forms of the nucleic acids. In the case of poly(dG-m5dC).(dG-m5dC) the B-to-Z transition is induced at low ionic strength (2 mM NaCl + 10 microM Co(NH3)6Cl3) and the covalent binding is found to be 2-3-times lower to the Z form than to the B form. Physical binding of BaPDE by intercalation, which precedes the covalent binding reaction, is significantly lower in the Z form than in the B form, thus accounting, in part, for the lower covalent binding. The linear dichroism characteristics of BaPDE covalently bound to the Z and B forms of poly(dG-m5dC).(dG-m5dC) are consistent with nonintercalative, probably external conformations of the aromatic pyrenyl residues.
,   Monoclonal antibodies were generated to a purified preparation of the fascia adherens domains of the intercalated discs of chicken cardiac cell membranes. One of these antibodies, McAb 20, immunofluorescently labeled the Z lines of adult skeletal muscle, the Z lines and intercalated discs of adult cardiac muscle, and the dense bodies and dense plaques of adult gizzard smooth muscle. In addition, McAb 20 was found to label regenerating muscle cells in a cross-striated pattern much like that of Z lines in 24-h muscle cell cultures before the appearance of Z lines was detectable by phase or Nomarski optics and before the concentration of alpha-actinin occurred at the Z lines. Thus, McAb 20 appears to be directed against an antigen involved in early myofibrillar organization. Preliminary biochemical characterization of the antigen recognized by McAb 20 indicates that it is a high molecular weight doublet of over 5 X 10(5) kD that is highly susceptible to proteolysis. By virtue of its presence in Z lines, and its possible role in the end-on attachment of microfilaments to Z lines and membranes, we have named this protein zeugmatin (xi epsilon nu gamma mu alpha identical to yoking).
,   The B<==>Z transition of poly[d(G-m5C).d(G-m5C)] in buffered solution (0.002 M sodium cacodylate, pH 7) was studied by CD and ultraviolet spectroscopy as a function of the supporting electrolyte concentration (0.002-1.1 M NaClO4) in the absence of Hg(ClO4)2 [Hg(II)], and as a function of the Hg(II) concentration at a given NaClO4 level. NaClO4 alone changes the conformation of the polymer from B<==>Z at approximately 0.7 M NaClO4. The spectral changes caused by Hg(II) in the B-form polymer (e.g. at 0.002 M < or = [Na] < or = 0.7) resemble those generated by salt alone during the B<==>Z transition; the changes generated by Hg(II) in the Z-form polymer (e.g. in 1.1 M [Na]) leave principally intact the Z-form spectrum obtained at the higher levels of NaClO4 (e.g. at [Na] > 0.7 M) in the absence of Hg(II). It is concluded that particularly the long-wavelength positive-CD band, located at 274 nm, is a correct indicator of duplex DNA right<==>left-screwness inversion. According to generally accepted criteria, the NaClO4-induced left-handed form is Z DNA; Hg(II) generates a left-handed form termed here ZHg(II). This form is close to (but not identical with) the salt-induced Z-form. All Hg(II)-induced spectral changes are reversible upon removal of Hg(II) with a suitable complexing reagent (e.g. NaCN).
,   Marginal analysis using the generalized estimating equation approach is widely applied to correlated observations, as occur in studies with clusters and in longitudinal follow-up of individuals. In this article, we investigate the effect of confounding in such models. We assume that a risk factor x and a confounder z are related by a generalized linear model to the outcome y, which can be binary or ordinal. In order to investigate confounding arising from the omission of z, a joint structure for x and z must be specified. Modeling normally distributed (x,z) as sums of between- and within-individual (or cluster) components allows us to incorporate different degrees of between- and within-individual correlation. Such a structure includes, as special cases, cohort and period effects in longitudinal settings and random intercept models. The latter situation corresponds to allowing z to vary only on the between-individual (or cluster) level and to be uncorrelated with x, and leads to attenuation of the coefficient of x in marginal models with the logit and probit links. More complex situations occur when z is allowed to also vary on the within-individual (or cluster) level and when z is correlated with x. We examine the model specification and the expected bias when fitting a marginal model in the presence of the omitted confounder z. We derive general formulas and interpret the parameters and results in an ongoing cohort study. Testing for omitted covariates is also discussed.
,   A toxicologic and dermatologic review of (Z)-2-penten-1-ol when used as a fragrance ingredient is presented.
,   Formation of the polar Z ring is a crucial step in the establishment of cellular asymmetry during sporulation of Bacillus subtilis. New results suggest that the transition from medial to polar Z rings involves a dynamic FtsZ spiral structure that may transfer FtsZ from medial to polar sites.
,   The eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF4E, a potent oncogene, is highly regulated. One class of eIF4E regulators, including eIF4G and the 4E-binding proteins (4E-BPs), interact with eIF4E using a conserved YXXXXLPhi-binding site. The structural basis of this interaction and its regulation are well established. Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain containing proteins, such as the promyelocytic leukemia protein PML and the arenaviral protein Z, represent a second class of eIF4E regulators that inhibit eIF4E function by decreasing eIF4E's affinity for its m(7)G cap ligand. To elucidate the structural basis of this inhibition, we determined the structure of Z and studied the Z-eIF4E complex using NMR methods. We show that Z interacts with eIF4E via a novel binding site, which has no homology with that of eIF4G or the 4E-BPs, and is different from the RING recognition site used in the ubiquitin system. Z and eIF4G interact with distinct parts of eIF4E and differentially alter the conformation of the m(7)G cap-binding site. Our results provide a molecular basis for how PML and Z RINGs reduce the affinity of eIF4E for the m(7)G cap and thereby act as key inhibitors of eIF4E function. Furthermore, our findings provide unique insights into RING protein interactions.
,   We examined the effects of a new compound, N-[3-[3-(piperidinomethyl)phenoxy]-propyl]-2-(2-hydroxyethyl-1- thio)acetamido.2-(4-hydroxy benzoyl)benzoate (Z-300), on the histamine H2-receptor, gastric secretion in rats and dogs, and acute gastro-duodenal lesions or chronic gastric ulcers in rats. Roxatidine acetate hydrochloride (roxatidine), a known histamine H2-receptor antagonist, was used as a reference compound. The pA2 values for Z-300 and roxatidine for the isolated guinea pig atrium were 6.8 and 7.0, respectively. These agents at less than 10(-5) M did not affect the contraction of guinea pig ileum in response to carbachol. Z-300, administered either orally or parenterally, significantly inhibited the basal and histamine-stimulated gastric acid secretion in rats. Gastric acid secretion stimulated by histamine, pentagastrin or carbachol in Heidenhain pouch dogs was also significantly inhibited by the compound. The effect persisted for greater than 7 hr in the case of histamine-stimulation. Oral Z-300 significantly protected the gastric mucosa from water-immersion stress-, indomethacin-, aspirin- and HCl.ethanol-induced lesions and protected the duodenal mucosa against mepirizole- and cysteamine-induced ulcers. These effects on gastric secretion and lesion formation were, as a whole, stronger than those observed with roxatidine. Z-300, but not roxatidine, significantly accelerated the spontaneous healing of acetic acid ulcers induced in rats and prevented the delay in ulcer healing caused by indomethacin. The mechanism of action of Z-300 on acute lesions and chronic ulcers appears to be mostly related to its potent antisecretory and mucosal-protective activities.
,   This article describes a proximal phalangeal osteotomy for the correction of abductus deformity of the hallux. The modification uses a Z-osteotomy, which retains the length of the hallux, corrects the abductus component, and provides excellent rigid internal fixation. This procedure may be used only in mild-to-moderate cases.
,   Cytokinesis in bacteria is mediated by a cytokinetic ring, termed the Z ring, which forms a scaffold for recruitment of other cell-division proteins. The Z ring is composed of FtsZ filaments, but their organization in the Z ring is poorly understood. In Escherichia coli, the Min system contributes to the spatial regulation of cytokinesis by preventing the assembly of the Z ring away from midcell. The effector of the Min system, MinC, inhibits Z ring assembly by a mechanism that is not clear.e, we report that MinC controls the scaffolding function of FtsZ by antagonizing the mechanical integrity of FtsZ structures. Specifically, MinC antagonizes the ability of FtsZ filaments to be in a solid-like gel state. MinC is a modular protein whose two domains (MinC(C) and MinC(N)) synergize to inhibit FtsZ function. MinC(C) interacts directly with FtsZ polymers to target MinC to Z rings. MinC(C) also prevents lateral interactions between FtsZ filaments, an activity that seems to be unique among cytoskeletal proteins. Because MinC(C) is inhibitory in vivo, it suggests that lateral interactions between FtsZ filaments are important for the structural integrity of the Z ring. MinC(N) contributes to MinC activity by weakening the longitudinal bonds between FtsZ molecules in a filament leading to a loss of polymer rigidity and consequent polymer shortening. On the basis of our results, we develop the first computational model of the Z ring and study the effects of MinC.trol over the scaffolding activity of FtsZ probably represents a universal regulatory mechanism of bacterial cytokinesis.
,   Dehydrogenative cis double phosphorylation of terminal alkynes with H-phosphonate took place efficiently in the presence of a divalent palladium catalyst to afford (Z)-bisphosphoryl-1-alkenes selectively.
,   Molecules of 2-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone, C7H7N3O2, where Z' = 2, are linked by two N-H...N hydrogen bonds into isolated dimers, whereas in the isomeric 3-nitrobenzaldehyde hydrazone, where Z' = 1, the molecules are linked by one N-H...O hydrogen bond and one N-H...N hydrogen bond into a three-dimensional framework structure.
,   Z-103 is a chelate compound consisting of zinc ion and L-carnosine. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of Z-103 against colonic damage induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNB) in rats. Colonic inflammation was induced by administering TNB dissolved in 50% ethanol (120 mg/ml) in male Wistar rats (total volume of 0.25 ml per rat) following a 48-hour fast. After the administration of TNB, Z-103 was given at a dose of 30 mg/kg per rat for 1 week. A second group of rats received sulfasalazine (SASP) at 300 mg/kg and a third group of rats received 30 mg/kg of ZnSO4 for 1 week. Colonic inflammation was assessed 1 week following TNB administration. Both macro- and microscopic evaluation showed that the inflammatory responses induced by TNB were reduced by treatment with Z-103, SASP and ZnSO4. The score (graded from 0 to 5 according to the macroscopic lesions) and colonic wet weight (distal 8 cm of the colon) were significantly decreased by treatment with Z-103, SASP and ZnSO4. The increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the colonic mucosa following TNB administration were inhibited in the Z-103 and SASP groups. These results suggest that Z-103 is as effective against TNB-induced colitis as SASP.
,   CYP4F isoforms are involved in the oxidation of important cellular mediators such as leukotriene B4 (LTB4) and prostaglandins. The proinflammatory agent LTB4 and cytotoxic leukotoxins have been associated with several inflammatory diseases. We present evidence that the hydroxylation of Z 9(10)-epoxyoctadecanoic, Z 9(10)-epoxyoctadec-Z 12-enoic, and Z 12(13)-epoxyoctadec-Z 9-enoic acids and that of monoepoxides from arachidonic acid [epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (EET)] is important in the regulation of leukotoxin and EET activity. These three epoxidized derivatives from the C18 family (C18-epoxides) were converted to 18-hydroxy-C18-epoxides by human hepatic microsomes with apparent Km values of between 27.6 and 175 microM. Among recombinant P450 enzymes, CYP4F2 and CYP4F3B catalyzed mainly the omega-hydroxylation of C18-epoxides with an apparent Vmax of between 0.84 and 15.0 min(-1), whereas the apparent Vmax displayed by CYP4F3A, the isoform found in leukocytes, ranged from 3.0 to 21.2 min(-1). The rate of omega-hydroxylation by CYP4A11 was experimentally found to be between 0.3 and 2.7 min(-1). CYP4F2 and CYP4F3 exhibited preferences for omega-hydroxylation of Z 8(9)-EET, whereas human liver microsomes preferred Z 11(12)-EET and, to a lesser extent, Z 8(9)-EET. Moreover, vicinal diol from both C18-epoxides and EETs were omega-hydroxylated by liver microsomes and by CYP4F2 and CYP4F3. These data support the hypothesis that the human CYP4F subfamily is involved in the omega-hydroxylation of fatty acid epoxides. These findings demonstrate that another pathway besides conversion to vicinal diol or chain shortening by beta-oxidation exists for fatty acid epoxide inactivation.
,   The volatile components of the aerial parts of Ruta graveolens and Haplophyllum suaveolens, as well as of leaves of Zanthoxylum limoncello, Z. panamense and Z. setulosum have been studied by GC/MS analysis.
,   The phase behavior of Ising spin fluids is studied in the presence of an external magnetic field with the integral equation method. The calculations are performed on the basis of a soft mean spherical approximation using an efficient algorithm for solving the coupled set of the Ornstein-Zernike equations, the closure relations, and the external field constraint. The phase diagrams are obtained in the whole thermodynamic space including the magnetic field H for a wide class of Ising fluid models with various ratios R of the strengths of magnetic to nonmagnetic Yukawa-like interactions. The influence of varying the inverse screening lengths z(1) and z(2), corresponding to the magnetic and nonmagnetic Yukawa parts of the potential, is investigated too. It is shown that changes in R as well as in z(1) and z(2) can lead to different topologies of the phase diagrams. In particular, depending on the value of R, the critical temperature of the liquid-gas transition either decreases monotonically, behaves nonmonotonically, or increases monotonically with increasing H. The para-ferro magnetic transition is also affected by changes in R and the screening lengths. At H=0, the Ising fluid maps onto a simple model of a symmetric nonmagnetic binary mixture. For H--> infinity, it reduces to a pure nonmagnetic fluid. The results are compared with available simulations and the predictions of other theoretical methods. It is demonstrated that the mean spherical approximation appears to be more accurate compared with mean field theory, especially for systems with short ranged attraction potentials (when z(1) and z(2) are large). In the Kac limit z(1), z(2) -->+0, both approaches tend to nearly the same results.
,   We present a technique for rapid characterization of degenerate nonlinear absorption and refraction spectra using a femtosecond white-light continuum (WLC) pulse to perform Z-scans. The spectral components of the WLC source are temporally and spatially dispersed to minimize nondegenerate two-photon absorption (2PA) processes. We demonstrate the validity of the method by measuring the 2PA spectrum of a well-characterized semiconductor, ZnSe.
,   In 2000, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a set of growth references that address limitations of the internationally recommended 1977 National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) references.s study compares length-for-age Z-scores (LA Z-scores), height-for-age Z-scores (HA Z-scores), and age-specific stunting prevalences of undernourished children using the 1977 NCHS versus the 2000 CDC references.a come from > 2000 children from the Cebu Longitudinal Health and Nutrition Study in the Philippines. Anthropometric data were collected bimonthly from birth to 2 years, at 8.5 and 11.5 years, and at 15 years in girls and 16 years in boys. Z-scores and stunting prevalences are compared between references.Z-scores were generally lower using the 1977 references, and stunting prevalences were higher from 0 to 2 years, with some crossover. Differences in HA Z-scores after 8.5 years of age were inconsistent in both direction and magnitude by reference and sex, with additional crossover.n applied to an undernourished population, the two references in question perform differently, with inconsistencies in direction and magnitude of Z-scores and stunting prevalences. The 2000 CDC growth references are clearly an improved tool. However, there are challenges inherent in switching to a new reference that will require the attention of researchers and field workers.
,   We showed previously that overexpression of the alpha subunit of G(z) or G(i2) suppresses nordihydroguaiaretic acid-induced Golgi disassembly. To determine whether the active form of Galpha is required to maintain the structure of the Golgi apparatus, we examined the effects of a series of Galpha GAPs, regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins, on the Golgi structure. Expression of RGSZ1 or RGSZ2, both of which exhibit high selectivity for Galpha(z), markedly induced dispersal of the Golgi apparatus, whereas expression of RGS proteins that are rather selective for Galpha(q) or other Galpha(i) species did not. A mutated RGSZ1, which is deficient in the interaction with Galpha(z), did not induce Golgi disassembly. These results suggest that the active form of Galpha(z), but not Galpha(i2), is crucial for maintenance of the structure of the Golgi apparatus. Consistent with this idea, Golgi disruption also took place in cells transfected with a dominant-negative Galpha(z) mutant. Although previous studies showed that the expression of Galpha(z) is confined to neuronal cells and platelets, immunofluorescence and mRNA expression analyses revealed that it is also expressed, albeit at low levels, in non-neuronal cells, and is located in the Golgi apparatus. These results taken together suggest a general regulatory role for Galpha(z) in the control of the Golgi structure.
,   1,4-Silyl migration from sp2 carbon to carbonyl oxygen proceeded by the treatment of (Z)-beta-trimethylsilyl-alpha,beta-unsaturated ketones with copper(I) tert-alkoxide to afford vinylmetal species, which reacted with allylic halides to produce enol trimethylsilyl ethers of beta-alk-2-enyl-alpha,beta-unsaturated ketones with complete retention of configuration.
,   Total syntheses of both enantiomers of dictyochromenol (1) and its (Z)-stereoisomer (2) were achieved with high enantiomeric purity. The results of this study reveal the relationship between the optical rotation of the resolved 1 enantiomers.
,   We present the approximate polynomial expression for an ellipsoid with rotational symmetry about its major axis, which is on the y-z plane and at angle theta with respect to the z axis. These expressions have many possible useful applications in optics as shown. The main optical properties of these types of inclined ellipsoidal surface will be reviewed.
,   This study aimed to determine the frequency and factors associated with obesity in a cohort of children and adolescents with newly diagnosed untreated epilepsy.y mass index (BMI) Z-scores and percentiles, both adjusted for age, were used as measures for obesity. Potential covariates associated with these BMI measures included age, etiology (cryptogenic, idiopathic, symptomatic), seizure type (generalized, partial, unclear), concomitant medications (stimulants, nonstimulants, none), and insurance status (privately insured, Medicaid). The primary analysis compared the epilepsy patients' BMI Z-scores to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data for healthy children. The secondary analysis compared the epilepsy patients' BMI Z-scores to those of a regional healthy control group. Additional analyses incorporated the secondary outcome measure BMI percentiles indexed for age.ldren with newly diagnosed untreated epilepsy had higher BMI Z-scores compared to standard CDC growth charts (p < 0.0001) and the healthy control cohort (p = 0.0002) specifically at both of the 2 tail ends of the distribution. Overall, 38.6% of the epilepsy cohort were overweight or obese (BMI > or =85th percentile for age). Differences in age, etiology, and concomitant nonepilepsy medications were significantly associated with variability in age-adjusted BMI Z-score. Patients in adolescence had higher adjusted BMI Z-scores than younger patients. Patients with symptomatic epilepsy had lower adjusted BMI Z-scores than patients with idiopathic epilepsy. Patients on stimulant psychotropics exhibited lower adjusted BMI Z-scores than patients on no medication.sity is a common comorbidity in children with newly diagnosed untreated epilepsy and correlates with increasing age, idiopathic etiology, and absence of concomitant medication.
,   We have synthesized bicyclic azobenzene dimers that possess enantiomers whose racemization rates could be controlled reversibly through E-Z photoisomerization of the azobenzene units. Upon alternating the exposure to r- and l-CPL, we were able to repeatedly perform partial enrichment of (S)- and (R)- enantiomers, respectively.
,   Sequential reaction of a keto-dioxinone with dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal and a range of magnesium acetylides gave the corresponding enyne-dioxinones as mixtures of E and Z isomers (E > Z). Subsequent reaction with iodine monochloride resulted in cycloaromatization, presumably via an iodovinyl cation, giving a range of 4H-1,3-benzodioxin-4-ones. 
,   A new operative procedure was devised to treat polysyndactyly of the fifth toe. This procedure, which consists of removal of the fifth toe, correction of the alignment of the preserved sixth toe by arthroplasty and construction of an interdigital space by Z-plasty, is technically simple and produces good results, both functionally and aesthetically.
,   The relationship between protein Z levels and thrombosis is controversial. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the available studies to assess the association between protein Z and vascular thrombotic diseases. We conducted an electronic literature search through MedLine, Embase, Google Scholar, Web of Science, The Cochrane Library, bibliographies of retrieved articles and abstracts of congresses up to October, 2009. Studies were included if they analysed protein Z levels in patients with vascular thrombotic diseases. After the review process, 28 case-control studies (33 patient cohorts), including 4,218 patients with thrombotic diseases and 4,778 controls, were selected for analysis. The overall analysis using a random-effects model showed that low protein Z levels were associated with an increased risk of thrombosis (odds ratio [OR] 2.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.05-4.12; p<0.00001). On subgroup analysis, a significant association was found between low protein Z levels and arterial vascular diseases (OR 2.67, 95%CI 1.60-4.48; p=0.0002), pregnancy complications (OR 4.17, 95%CI 2.31-7.52; p<0.00001), and venous thromboembolic diseases (OR 2.18, 95%CI 1.19-4.00; p=0.01). The results of this meta-analysis are consistent with a role for protein Z deficiency in thrombotic diseases, including arterial thrombosis, pregnancy complications and venous thromboembolism.
,   It is not known whether the small 11-kDa Z protein of Lassa virus is immunogenic during human Lassa virus infection. To obtain evidence for the existence of an antibody response and to test the suitability of these antibodies for serosurveys, sera from Lassa fever endemic regions (Guinea and Nigeria, n = 75) were tested for co-reactivity to Z protein and nucleoprotein (NP). Sera from a non-endemic region (Uganda, n = 50) served as a specificity control. Z protein and NP were expressed in Escherichia coli, affinity-purified, and used as antigen in Western blot. Indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) with Lassa virus-infected cells was performed for comparison. Due to high unspecific reactivity of the African sera, Western blot testing was performed with a 1:1,000 serum dilution. Under these conditions, none of the control sera but 12% of the sera from endemic regions co-reacted with both Z protein and NP. Reactivity to Z protein was significantly associated with NP reactivity (P < 10(-6)). NP and Z protein-specific antibodies were co-detected in 33% of the IIF-positive sera and in 5% of the IIF-negative sera (P = 0.001). These data provide evidence for appearance of antibodies to Z protein and NP following Lassa virus infection. A recombinant blot for detection of both antibody specificities seems to be specific but less sensitive than IIF.
,   Several peptides and peptide derivatives were tested for their inhibitory effect on prolyl endopeptidase and possible properties as anti-amnesic agents. Among the compounds tested, Z-Gly-Pro-CH2Cl, Z-Val-prolinal, Boc-Pro-prolinal, Z-Pro-prolinal, aniracetam and pramiracetam inhibited the enzyme activities at Ki values in the order of nM to microM, and the effect of the prolinal-containing peptide derivatives was specific for prolyl endopeptidase. Z-Pro-prolinal was the most effective inhibitor in vitro (Ki = 5 nM) and in vivo (50 to 70% inhibition in various organs of rat at a dose of 1 mumol/animal i.p.). Regional differences were observed in the effect of inhibitors on the brain enzyme activities: most active in mesencephalon, followed by striatum, cerebellum, hippocampus, hypothalamus; and inactive in cerebral cortex and medulla oblongata. In the passive avoidance learning test using rats, pretreatment with Z-Pro-prolinal prevented the induction of amnesia by scopolamine at the dose of 1 mumol/animal, i.p. Z-Val-prolinal, Z-Pyr-prolinal and Z-Gly-Pro-CH2Cl were also effective in the retention test at 24 and 48 h after the training trial. The antiamnesic effect of these compounds was approximately parallel to the in vitro inhibitory activities on prolyl endopeptidase. These results suggest the possibility that the inhibitors exhibit their anti-amnesic effect through the regulation of the enzyme activity in the brain.
,   (+)-(R,Z)-5-Muscenone ((R)-1) was synthesized by an enantioselective aldol reaction, catalyzed by new ephedrine-type Ti reagents (up to 70 % enantiomeric excess). Substrate-directed diastereoselective reduction of the aldol product and Grob fragmentation of the tosylate of the resultant 1,3-diol afforded (+)-1. This approach also gave access to (-)-(R,E)-5-muscenone and (-)-(R)-muscone.
,   The conventional means of generating Bessel-Gauss beams by axicons in the laboratory results in the distinct disadvantage of an abrupt change in intensity at the boundary of the non-diffracting region. We outline theoretically and then demonstrate experimentally a concept for the creation of Bessel-like beams that have a z-dependent cone angle, thereby allowing for a far greater quasi non-diffracting propagation region.
,   The nature of the possible supercoil-induced B-Z transition has been analyzed from the thermodynamical point of view, by taking into account the effects of the twisting as well as the writhing components of the supercoiling free energy. The cooperative aspects of the transition, as predicted by theory, agrees well with the corresponding experimental data.
,   A series of pseudopeptide analogues of the C-terminal heptapeptide of cholecystokinin in which each peptide bond, one at a time, has been replaced by a CH2NH bond were synthesized: Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp psi-(CH2NH)Phe-NH2 (1), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle psi (CH2NH)Asp-Phe-NH2 (2), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp psi-(CH2NH)Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2 (3), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly psi(CH2NH)Trp-Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2 (4), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle psi-(CH2NH)Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2 (5), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp psi (CH2NH)Phe-NH2 (6), Z-Tyr-(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp-Nle psi (CH2NH)Asp-Phe-NH2 (7), Z-Tyr(SO3-)-Met-Gly-Trp psi (CH2NH)Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2 (8). These derivatives were studied for their ability to stimulate amylase release from rat pancreatic acini and to inhibit the binding of labeled CCK-9 to rat pancreatic acini and to guinea pig brain membrane CCK receptors. They were compared to the potent CCK-8 analogue Boc-Asp-Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2. All of these pseudopeptides were able to stimulate amylase secretion with the same efficacy as CCK-8 but with varying potencies. These compounds were also potent in inhibiting the binding of labeled CCK-9 to CCK receptors from rat pancreatic acini and from guinea pig brain membranes.
,   We investigated the pharmacological characteristics of Z-335 ((+/-)-sodium[2-[4-(chlorophenylsulfonylaminomethyl)indan-5-yl]ace tate monohydrate), a new indan derivative. Z-335 inhibited the specific binding of [3H]SQ-29548 to human platelets and guinea pig platelet membranes. The IC50 values of Z-335 for human platelets and guinea pig platelet membranes were 29.9 +/- 3.1 nM with a slope of 1.09 +/- 0.05 and 32.5 +/- 1.7 nM with a slope of 1.07 +/- 0.02, respectively. Z-335 inhibited thromboxane A2 receptor-mediated human and guinea pig platelet aggregation in vitro and oral administration of this drug to guinea pigs inhibited U-46619- and collagen-induced platelet aggregation for 24 h. Z-335 dose-dependently prevented the occurrence of U-46619-induced pulmonary thromboembolism in mice and the protective effect of this drug (0.3 and 3 mg/kg, p.o.) lasted for 24 h. These results strongly suggest that Z-335 is a potent, orally active and long-lasting thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist, which may be useful as an antiplatelet drug.
,   Zoophthora radicans (Zygomycetes: Entomophthorales), Diadegma semiclausum (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), and Cotesia plutellae (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) are all natural enemies of the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Yponomeutidae). Adult C. plutellae are not susceptible to Z. radicans infection but the pathogen can infect and kill adult D. semiclausum. Infection of adult D. semiclausum prior to exposure to P. xylostella host larvae significantly reduced the number of parasitoid cocoons subsequently developing from the host larvae. Although Z. radicans infection of P. xylostella larvae prior to parasitism by D. semiclausum or C. plutellae always resulted in the death of the immature parasitoids, neither species discriminated between healthy and Z. radicans-infected host larvae in an oviposition choice experiment. However, host larvae recently killed by Z. radicans were always rejected by D. semiclausum but sometimes accepted by C. plutellae. At 20 degrees C, egg to pupa development took 6.7 and 7.8 days for D. semiclausum and C. plutellae, respectively. C. plutellae parasitism significantly increased host instar duration but D. semiclausum parasitism did not. Cadavers of P. xylostella larvae parasitized 1 day prior to fungal infection showed no reduction in Z. radicans conidia yield. However, cadavers of larvae parasitized 3 days prior to fungal infection demonstrated a marked decrease in Z. radicans conidia yield. Z. radicans infection of P. xylostella larvae < or = 4 days after parasitism resulted in 100% parasitoid mortality; thereafter, the reduction in parasitoid cocoon yield decreased as the time between parasitism and initiation of fungal infection increased. The extended duration of the host larval stage induced by C. plutellae parasitism increased the availability of the parasitoid to the pathogen. Estimates of interspecific competition indicated a similar pattern for the interaction between Z. radicans and each species of parasitoid.
,   A simple and efficient procedure for the synthesis of aryl- and vinyl-selenides has been developed by a copper nanoparticle catalysed reaction of aryl iodide/vinyl bromide with diphenyl diselenide in the presence of zinc in water. (E)-Vinyl bromides produce (E)-vinyl selenides stereoselectively, whereas (Z)-vinyl bromides provide mixtures of (E) and (Z) isomers. The catalyst was recycled.
,   The title compound, C(6)H(9)NO(4), was prepared stereoselectively as a precursor for 1-aza-dienes in a study of hetero-Diels-Alder reactions. The configuration of the C=N double bond was found to be Z, corroborating earlier assignments of similar compounds based only on NMR and IR spectroscopic analysis.
,   In the title compound, [Fe(C(5)H(5))(C(13)H(9)N(2))], the pyridine ring makes a dihedral angle of 9.91 (17)° with the substituted cyclo-penta-dienyl ring and the double bond adopts a Z configuration. In the crystal structure, inter-molecular C-H⋯N hydrogen bonds link the molecules into a one-dimensional chain in the a+c direction.
,   The title mol-ecule, C(13)H(13)NO(5), adopts a Z conformation at the C= C double bond. The eth-oxy atoms of the ethyl ester group are disordered over two orientations in a 3:2 ratio. Weak inter-molecular C-H⋯O hydrogen bonds help to establish the packing.
,   In the title compound, C(8)H(9)N(5), a Schiff base derived from N-methyl-pyrrole-2-carbaldehyde and 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, the C=N double bond linking the two aromatic rings has a Z conformation. The two rings are twisted by 24.20 (5)°. A chain motif results from N-H⋯N hydrogen bonding.
,   The kinetics and mechanism of the reactions of Z-aryl bis(4-methoxyphenyl) phosphates, (4-MeOC(6)H(4)O)(2)P(=O)OC(6)H(4)Z, with pyridines (XC(5)H(4)N) are investigated in acetonitrile at 55.0 degrees C. In the case of more basic phenolate leaving groups (Z = 4-Cl, 3-CN), the magnitudes of beta(X) (beta(nuc)) and beta(Z) (beta(lg)) indicate that mechanism changes from a concerted process (beta(X) = 0.22-0.36, beta(Z) = -0.42 to -0.56) for the weakly basic pyridines (X = 3-Cl, 4-CN) to a stepwise process with rate-limiting formation of a trigonal bipyramidal pentacoordinate (TBP-5C) intermediate (beta(X) = 0.09-0.14, beta(Z) = -0.08 to -0.28) for the more basic pyridines (X = 4-NH(2), 3-CH(3)). This proposal is supported by a large negative cross-interaction constant (rho(XZ) = -1.98) for the former and a positive rho(XZ) (+0.97) for the latter processes. In the case of less basic phenolate leaving groups (Z = 3-CN, 4-NO(2)), the unusually small magnitude of beta(Z) values is indicative of a direct backside attack TBP-5C TS in which the two apical sites are occupied by the nucleophile and leaving group, ap(NX)-ap(LZ). The instability of the putative TBP-5C intermediate leading to a concerted displacement is considered to result from relatively strong proximate charge transfer interactions between the pi-lone pairs on the directly bonded equatorial oxygen atoms and the apical bond (n(O)(eq) - sigma(ap)). These are supported by the results of natural bond orbital (NBO) analyses at the NBO-HF/6-311+G//B3LYP/6-311+G level of theory.
,   No recombinants between LW and C3, using a C3 DNA probe, were observed in 16 female meioses: z 4.216 at theta = 0.00. Combined with the data of Sistonen (1984) the recombination fraction between LW and C3 is estimated to be 0.09 (z 3.773) in females.
,   A new method for the tunable synthesis of 1,4-enedione directly from aromatic methyl ketone is described. This tandem reaction enables the construction of symmetric and unsymmetric 1,4-enediones with complete E-selectivity. Moreover, the resulting E-1,4-enedione could be transformed into a Z-isomer by irradiation with 23 W of white light.
,   Although religion/spirituality (R/S) is important in its own right for many cancer patients, a large body of research has examined whether R/S is also associated with better physical health outcomes. This literature has been characterized by heterogeneity in sample composition, measures of R/S, and measures of physical health. In an effort to synthesize previous findings, a meta-analysis of the relation between R/S and patient-reported physical health in cancer patients was performed. A search of PubMed, PsycINFO, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and the Cochrane Library yielded 2073 abstracts, which were independently evaluated by pairs of raters. The meta-analysis was conducted for 497 effect sizes from 101 unique samples encompassing more than 32,000 adult cancer patients. R/S measures were categorized into affective, behavioral, cognitive, and 'other' dimensions. Physical health measures were categorized into physical well-being, functional well-being, and physical symptoms. Average estimated correlations (Fisher z scores) were calculated with generalized estimating equations with robust variance estimation. Overall R/S was associated with overall physical health (z = 0.153, P < .001); this relation was not moderated by sociodemographic or clinical variables. Affective R/S was associated with physical well-being (z = 0.167, P < .001), functional well-being (z = 0.343, P < .001), and physical symptoms (z = 0.282, P < .001). Cognitive R/S was associated with physical well-being (z = 0.079, P < .05) and functional well-being (z = 0.090, P < .01). 'Other' R/S was associated with functional well-being (z = 0.100, P < .05). In conclusion, the results of the current meta-analysis suggest that greater R/S is associated with better patient-reported physical health. These results underscore the importance of attending to patients' religious and spiritual needs as part of comprehensive cancer care. Cancer 2015;121:3760-3768. © 2015 American Cancer Society. 
,   Immunization of rabbits with a complex of methylated bovine serum albumin and N-2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF)-modified poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC), a polynucleotide that can assume the Z-DNA conformation, yielded several populations of antibodies specific for Z-DNA determinants. The Z-DNA determinants were analyzed by examination of the antisera and of antibody preparations purified on immunoadsorbents. The following was found: AAF-poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC) shared Z-DNA determinants in common with poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC) in 3.0 M NaCl, poly(dG-m5dC) X poly(dG-m5dC) in 1.5 M NaCl, and brominated poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC) in 0.2, 1.5, and 3.0 M NaCl. Included among the antibodies induced by these determinants was a subpopulation whose reaction with brominated poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC) was sensitive to increased ionic strength. Another distinct population of antibodies recognized determinants present on AAF-poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC) but not on the other Z-DNAs. Only a small portion of this population was specific for the AAF moiety; the greater part appeared to recognize Z-DNA-associated conformational characteristics that were unique to AAF-poly(dG-dC) X poly(dG-dC). These findings are consistent with the existence of a continuum of Z-DNA determinants, which might be capable of functioning as recognition signals for regulatory DNA-binding proteins.
,   We report on three unrelated children with neonatal radiological characteristics of the Weissenbacher-Zweymüller (W-Z) syndrome. Subsequently, they developed the Marshall syndrome. The relationship between the W-Z, Marshall, and Stickler syndromes is discussed.
,   Conformational transitions of poly(dA-dC).poly(dG-dT), poly(dA-dT).poly(dA-dT), and other alternating purine-pyrimidine DNAs were studied in aqueous ethanol solutions containing molar concentrations of sodium perchlorate, which is a novel solvent stabilizing non-B duplexes of DNA. Using CD and UV absorption spectroscopies, we show that this solvent unstacks bases and unwinds the B-forms of the DNAs to transform them into the A-form or Z-form. In the absence of divalent cations poly(dA-dC).poly(dG-dT) can adopt both of these conformations. Its transition into the Z-form is induced at higher salt and lower ethanol concentrations, and at higher temperatures than the transition into the A-form. Submillimolar concentrations of NiCl2 induce a highly cooperative and slow A-Z transition or Z-Z' transition, which is fast and displays low cooperativity. Poly(dA-dT).poly(dA-dT) easily isomerizes into the A-form in perchlorate-ethanol solutions, whereas high perchlorate concentrations denature the polynucleotide, which then cannot adopt the Z-form. At low temperatures, however, NiCl2 also cooperatively induces the Z'-form in poly(dA-dT).poly(dA-dT). Poly(dI-dC).poly(dI-dC) is known to adopt an unusual B-form in low-salt aqueous solution, which is transformed into a standard B-form by the combination of perchlorate and ethanol. NiCl2 then transforms poly(dI-dC).poly(dI-dC) into the Z'-form, which is also adopted by poly(dI-br5dC).poly(dI-br5dC).
,   Nine chronic schizophrenic patients selected from three hospital departments were treated with flupentixol (orally and IV) and cis(Z)-flupentixol decanoate in Viscoleo (IM) in a three-phase pharmacokinetic study. Oral administration (single and repeated dosage) showed a relatively slow absorption with maximum serum concentration around 4 h after administration. Intravenous injection indicated multicompartment kinetics for cis(Z)-flupentixol. The biological half-lives calculated after the different doses were the same, indicating that the pharmacokinetics of cis(Z)-flupentixol does not differ between single and repeated administration and does not change when moderately higher doses are given. The bioavailability of orally administered cis(Z)-flupentixol was calculated to be about 40% with IV injection as reference. After IM administration maximum serum concentration was seen between 4 and 10 days in most patients. Calculation of a disappearance half-life gave very variable results, indicating that the release of the drug from the oil depot is not a monoexponential process. The intramuscular depot had a much lower bioavailability than IV injection, which means that steady state has not been obtained after 8 weeks of depot treatment. Serum prolactin concentrations were elevated during neuroleptic treatment, but no correlation was found between prolactin concentrations and the serum concentrations of cis(Z)-flupentixol. A correlation between the changes in clinical ratings and concentrations of cis(Z)-flupentixol or prolactin was not found.
,   ArgBP2 (Arg/Abl-Binding Protein) is expressed at high levels in the heart and is localized in the Z-bands of mature myofibrils. ArgBP2 is a member of a small family of proteins that also includes vinexin and CAP (c-Cbl-associated protein), all characterized by having one sorbin homology (SOHO) domain and three C-terminal SH3 domains. Antibodies directed against ArgBP2 also react with the Z-bodies of myofibril precursors: premyofibrils and nascent myofibrils. Expression in cardiomyocytes of plasmids encoding Yellow Fluorescent Protein (YFP) fused to either full length ArgBP2, the SOHO, mid-ArgBP or the SH3 domains of ArgBP2 led to Z-band targeting of the fusion proteins, whereas an N-terminal fragment lacking these domains did not target to Z-bands. Although ArgBP2 is not found in skeletal muscle cells, YFP-ArgBP2 did target to Z-bodies and Z-bands in cultured myotubes. GST-ArgBP2-SH3 bound actin, α-actinin and vinculin proteins in blot overlays, cosedimentation assays, and EM negative staining techniques. Over-expression of ArgBP2 and ArgBP2-SH3 domains, but not YFP alone, led to loss of myofibrils in cardiomyocytes. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching was used to measure the rapid dynamics of both the full length and some truncated versions of ArgBP2. Our results indicate that ArgBP2 may play an important role in the assembly and maintenance of myofibrils in cardiomyocytes.
,   The antimicrobial action of selected short synthetic peptides against wine spoilage yeasts such as Cryptococcus albidus, Dekkera bruxellensis, Pichia membranifaciens, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Zygosaccharomyces bailii and Zygosaccharomyces bisporus has been examined. Peptides analyzed include nine sequence-related antifungal hexapeptides (PAFs) previously developed by a combinatorial approach, and two representative lactoferricin B (LfcinB)-derived peptides. Different peptides had distinct activity profiles. In vitro assays identified the peptides PAF26, PAF36, and LfcinB(17-31), as having growth inhibitory properties towards several of the yeasts at low micromolar concentrations. Z. bailii and Z. bisporus were the most sensitive yeasts. In addition to their fungistatic activity, the three peptides showed fungicidal properties towards Z. bailii, Z. bisporus, and S. cerevisiae in laboratory growth medium. Remarkably, only LfcinB(17-31) against Z. bisporus had inhibitory and fungicidal properties in wine at the concentrations assayed, showing that the antimicrobial action of each peptide is dependent on both the food matrix and the target micro-organism. Lack of fungicidal activity of peptides against Z. bailii in wine is related to the presence of salt ions other than divalent cations. On the contrary, fungicidal activity of LfcinB(17-31) towards Z. bisporus was not significantly affected by wine salts. Our data identify a bioactive peptide from natural origin with potential use against the food spoilage yeast Z. bisporus, and indicate that the application of antimicrobial peptides in wine preservation deserves further investigation.
,   Lithium diisopropylamide (LDA) promotes virtually quantitative conversion of allylic ethers to (Z)-propenyl ethers. It was discovered that allylic ethers can be isomerized efficiently with very high stereoselectivity to (Z)-propenyl ethers by LDA in THF at room temperature. The reaction time for the conversion increases with more sterically hindered allylic ethers. Different amides were also compared with LDA for their ability to effect this isomerization.
,   Sticky card captures of house flies, Musca domestica L. (Diptera: Muscidae), were used to compare efficacy of screen-covered baits containing sugar, sugar and 0.1% (Z)-9-tricosene, sugar and 1.0% (Z)-9-tricosene, Golden Malrin [1.1% methomyl and 0.049% (Z)-9-tricosene], and Quick-Bayt [0.5% imidacloprid and 0.1% (Z)-9-tricosene]. The QuickBayt treatment caught more flies per hour (mean = 116.5) than sugar alone (mean = 81.0), but the addition of (Z)-9-tricosene to sugar did not increase fly capture compared with sugar alone. More males (65% of total) than females were collected on the sticky cards for all treatments. Fly kill by plain sugar (control) and the commercial baits Golden Malrin, QuikStrike Fly Abatement strips (1.0% nithiazine), and QuickBayt was tested over a 90-min period. An average of 1.4, 5.6, 363.0, and 1,266.0 flies were killed using sugar, Golden Malrin, QuikStrike, and QuickBayt, respectively. The similarity between Golden Malrin and plain sugar reflects severe resistance to this once effective methomyl bait. A no-choice feeding assay using lab-reared methomyl-susceptible and methomyl-resistant house flies was conducted with and without (Z)-9-tricosene. Adult mortality was significantly higher in the methomyl-susceptible strain exposed to treatments containing methomyl. Lower consumption of the methomyl treatments by resistant flies suggested resistance was behavioral and mortality was not influenced by (Z)-9-tricosene for either fly strain.
,   An alkene-bridged mimic of the complex DE-bisthioether-ring system of the antibiotic nisin was prepared in one step from the linear precursor.
,   Highly enantioselective hydrogenation of exocyclic enamides, (Z)-3-arylidene-4-acyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzoxazines, was achieved in up to 98.6% ee by using Rh/(R,R)-Me-Duphos complex as the catalytic system. The absolute configuration of the product was assigned as R by chemical interrelations.
,   A simple and concomitant esterification method for the synthesis of methyl, ethyl, t-butyl, benzyl, and 9-fluorenylmethyl esters of Fmoc-/Boc-/Z-beta-homoamino acids employing Fmoc-/Boc-/Z-alpha-aminodiazoketones by Wolff rearrangement is described. The method offers good yield with purity.
,   A Bi(III)-catalyzed method for the synthesis of highly conjugated aromatic multisubstituted fluorene with (Z)-pent-2-en-4-yl acetates and ethynylarenes via domino reaction is described. In this process, the reaction appears to be very general and suitable for a variety of multisubstituted fluorene.
,   A chemical synthesis of the D-ring of mersacidin is reported. The synthetic route relied upon development of a method for late-stage introduction of an unusual S-[(Z)-2-aminovinyl]-(3S)-3-methyl-D-cysteine (AviMeCys) functional group via an oxidative decarbonylation/decarboxylation reaction.
,   Our objectives were to identify and field test the sex pheromone of female Douglas-fir cone gall midge, Contarinia oregonensis (Diptera: Ce-cidomyiidae). Coupled gas chromatographic-electroantennographic detection (GC-EAD) analyses of pheromone extract revealed a single compound (A) that elicited responses from male antennae. Hydrogenation of pheromone extract, followed by renewed GC-EAD analysis, revealed a new EAD-active compound with chromatographic characteristics identical to those of tridecan-2-yl acetate on five fused silica columns (DB-5, DB-210, DB-23, SP-1000, and Cyclodex-B). Syntheses, chromatography, and retention index calculations of all possible tridecen-2-yl acetates suggested that the candidate pheromone A was a tridecadien-2-yl acetate with nonconjugated double bonds. Synthetic candidate pheromone component (Z,Z)-4,7-tridecadien-2-yl acetate (Z4Z7) cochromatographed with A on all analytical columns and elicited comparable antennal activity. In GC-EAD analyses that separated the enantiomers (Z,Z)-4,7-tridecadien-(S)-2-yl acetate (2S-Z4Z7) and (Z,Z)-4,7-tridecadien-(R)-2-yl acetate (2R-Z4Z7) with baseline resolution, only 2S-Z4Z7 as a component in a racemic standard or in pheromone extract elicited antennal responses. In Douglas-fir seed orchards, sticky traps baited with 2S-Z4Z7 captured male C. oregonensis, whereas 2R-Z4Z7 was behaviorally benign. Comparable catches of males in traps baited with racemic Z4Z7 (50 microg) or virgin female C. oregonensis suggested that synthetic pheromone baits could be developed for monitoring C. oregonensis populations in commercial Douglas-fir seed orchards.
,   The sarcomeric Z-disk, the anchoring plane of thin (actin) filaments, links titin (also called connectin) and actin filaments from opposing sarcomere halves in a lattice connected by alpha-actinin. We demonstrate by protein interaction analysis that two types of titin interactions are involved in the assembly of alpha-actinin into the Z-disk. Titin interacts via a single binding site with the two central spectrin-like repeats of the outermost pair of alpha-actinin molecules. In the central Z-disk, titin can interact with multiple alpha-actinin molecules via their C-terminal domains. These interactions allow the assembly of a ternary complex of titin, actin and alpha-actinin in vitro, and are expected to constrain the path of titin in the Z-disk. In thick skeletal muscle Z-disks, titin filaments cross over the Z-disk centre by approximately 30 nm, suggesting that their alpha-actinin-binding sites overlap in an antiparallel fashion. The combination of our biochemical and ultrastructural data now allows a molecular model of the sarcomeric Z-disk, where overlapping titin filaments and their interactions with the alpha-actinin rod and C-terminal domain can account for the essential ultrastructural features.
,   The aerial parts of Artemisia eriopoda (Compositae) afforded two new C (17)-polyacetylenes. Based on their IR, UV, EIMS, (1)H- and (13)C-NMR (DEPT) spectral data, the structures were elucidated to be (1,8 E,13 Z,16)-heptadecatetraene-4,6-diyne-3,11,12-triol and (1,8 E,12 E,14 Z)-heptadecatetraene-4,6-diyne-3,11-diol.
,   To characterize the cellular action mechanism of Debio 0507, we compared the major DNA adducts formed by Debio 0507- and oxaliplatin-treated HCT116 human colon carcinoma cells by a combination of inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and ultraperformance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS).116 cells were treated with IC(50) doses of Debio 0507 or oxaliplatin for 3 days. Total cellular Pt-DNA adducts were determined by ICP-MS. The DNA was digested, and the major Pt-DNA adducts formed by both drugs were characterized by UPLC/MS/MS essentially as described previously for cisplatin (Baskerville-Abraham et al. in Chem Res Toxicol 22:905-912, 2009). Pt level/deoxynucleotide was 7.4/10(4) for DNA from Debio 0507-treated cells and 5.5/10(4) for oxaliplatin-treated cells following a 3-day treatment at the IC(50) for each drug. UPLC-MS/MS in the positive ion mode confirmed the major Pt-DNA adducts formed by both drugs were dach-Pt-d(GpG) (904.2 m/z → 610 m/z and 904.2 m/z → 459 m/z) and dach-Pt-d(ApG) (888.2 m/z → 594 m/z and 888.2 m/z → 459 m/z).se data show that the major DNA adducts formed by Debio 0507 are the dach-Pt-d(GpG) and dach-Pt-d(ApG) adducts and at equitoxic doses Debio 0507 and oxaliplatin form similar levels of dach-Pt-d(GpG) and dach-Pt-d(ApG) adducts. This suggests that the action mechanisms of Debio 0507 and oxaliplatin are similar at a cellular level.
,   To investigate the expression of protein peak (3144 m/z) in serum and of its association with clinical pathological characteristics and prognosis in patients with gastric cancer.ee hundred and twenty seven pathologically confirmed gastric cancer patients were recruited from February 2006 to October 2008 in the Zhejiang Cancer Hospital. SELDI-TOF-MS was employed to detect the expression of protein peak (3144 m/z) in preoperative serum. positive rate of 3144 m/z protein peak was 33.9% (111/327), significantly higher than that of CEA (21.1%,69/327), and the difference was statistically significant (P<0.01). The positive rate of combined detection of protein peak (3144 m/z)and CEA was 45.6% (149/327). The expression of protein peak (3144 m/z) was associated with clinical staging (P<0.01), nervous invasion (P<0.01), tumor size (P<0.01), vascular invasion (P<0.05), lymph node metastasis (P<0.05), expression of CEA (P<0.05), and depth of infiltration (P<0.05). Significant difference was observed in 3-year survival rate between the patients with protein peak and patients without protein peak (44.7% vs. 64.4%, P<0.01). However, 3144 m/z protein peak was not an independent prognostic factor on multivariate Cox regression analysis (P=0.057).tein peak (3144 m/z) may be used as a diagnostic or prognostic marker of gastric cancer.
,   When human U937 cells are placed in agarose microbeads and treated with a detergent, the cytoplasmic membrane is lysed and the nuclear membrane is permeabilized. However, the nuclei remain intact and maintain both replication and transcription. Biotin labeled monoclonal antibodies against Z-DNA have been diffused into this system and used to measure the amount of Z-DNA present in the nuclei. It has previously been shown that the amount of Z-DNA present decreases due to relaxation by topoisomerase I and increases as the level of transcription increases. Here we measure the formation of Z-DNA in the c-myc gene by crosslinking the antibodies to DNA using laser radiation at 266 nm for 10 ns. The crosslinked DNA is isolated by restriction digestion, separation of antibody labeled fractions through the biotin residue, and subsequent proteolysis to remove the crosslinked antibody. Three AluI restriction fragments of the c-myc gene are shown to form Z-DNA when the cell is transcribing c-myc. The Z-DNA forming segments are near the promoter regions of the gene. However, when U937 cells start to differentiate and transcription of the c-myc gene is down-regulated, the Z-DNA content goes to undetectable levels within 30-60 min.
,   A validated method has been developed for the simultaneous quantitation of cocaine and its major metabolites (ecgonine methyl ester, benzoylecgonine, and norcocaine) in rat plasma. The method is based upon the use of stable isotope dilution liquid chromatography/atmospheric pressure chemical ionization/tandem mass spectrometry. Previously reported methods do not have the sensitivity and specificity that can be attained with this method. Plasma samples required no cleanup apart from protein precipitation, and no derivatization was required. Selected reaction monitoring was performed on the transitions of m/z 200 to m/z 182 (ecgonine methyl ester), m/z 290 to m/z 168 (benzoylecgonine), m/z 304 to m/z 182 (cocaine), and m/z 290 to m/z 168 (norcocaine). The standard curves were linear over the range from 2 ng/mL (benzoylecgonine, cocaine, and norcocaine) or 5 ng/mL (ecgonine methyl ester) to 1000 ng/mL in rat plasma. The lower limit of quantitation (LLQ) for benzoylecgonine, cocaine, and norcocaine was 2 ng/mL, and for ecgonine methyl ester, the LLQ was 5 ng/mL for plasma. This simple, rapid, reliable, and sensitive method of quantitation had excellent accuracy and precision for the four analytes. The method was sensitive enough to permit a detailed study of the pharmacokinetics of cocaine and its metabolites after administration of a bolus intravenous dose to rats.
,   Ethanolic extracts of six Indian medicinal plants, piperine, guggulsterone E and guggulsterone Z were tested for cytotoxicity using brine shrimp lethality test. Piper longum showed most potent cytotoxic activity. Piperine, guggulsterone E and guggulsterone Z showed potent activity with LC(50) 2.4, 8.9 and 4.9, respectively.
,   This study examined the associations between walking (number of steps and minutes spent) and seven health indicators, including chronic health conditions, depressive symptoms, and blood pressure, among nonexercising people who did not regularly engage in any non-walking moderate-to-vigorous physical activity in Hong Kong.er the FAMILY project, the number of steps per day and minutes spent walking were measured using an accelerometer. Participants (n=2417) whose only form of physical activity was walking were included in the present analysis.ee indicators of walking (number of steps, minutes spent walking at moderate intensity, and minutes spent walking at light intensity) was measured by accelerometer. Associations between these indicators and seven health conditions were measured by the difference in z scores for those with, and those without, each health condition, adjusted for age and sex. number of steps per day was significantly and inversely associated with hypertension (difference in z=-0.22, p<0.01), cancer (difference in z=-0.43, p<0.05), stroke (difference in z=-0.63, p<0.01), depressive symptoms (difference in z=-0.15, p<0.01), health-related quality-of-life (difference in z=-0.13, p<0.05), and pulse rate (difference in z=-0.11, p<0.01). By contrast, time spent walking as measured by accelerometer was associated only with a single health indicator (hypertension, difference in z=-0.14, p<0.05).n among non-exercising people, accumulating number of steps appears to be related to fewer health problems and should be promoted as an accessible form of exercise, especially for those who lack the time or ability to engage in physical activity of at least moderate intensity.
,   Prolonged-release (PR) melatonin is approved in Europe for the treatment of insomnia in patients aged 55 years and above. The objective of the study was to describe its prescription patterns and its impact on hypnotics use in routine clinical practice.s is a retrospective study analyzing PR melatonin prescription data from a German longitudinal database (IMS(®) Disease Analyzer). All patients initiating PR melatonin over the 10 months after approval (April 2008 - February 2009) were included. Patients were classified according to their use of hypnotic benzodiazepines or benzodiazepine-like drugs (BZD/Z) in the 3-month period before and after PR melatonin initiation.the 512 eligible patients, 380 (74%) were aged ≥ 55 years, 344 (67%) women and 112 (22%) previous BZD/Z users. Most of the latter (79/99, 79.8%) had used BZD/Z for at least 180 days. Approximately one-third (35/112, 31%) discontinued BZD/Z after PR melatonin initiation, and the BZD/Z discontinuation rate was higher in patients receiving two or three PR melatonin prescriptions than in patients receiving only one prescription (10/24 = 42% vs 25/88 = 28%, p = 0.21). Of the 400 patients without prior BZD/Z use, 39 (10%) received BZD/Z during the follow-up.ed on the observed 31% discontinuation rate, PR melatonin may help to facilitate BZD/Z discontinuation in older insomniacs.
,   Dichlorination of (Z)-allylic trichloroacetates efficiently and stereoselectively generates the syn,syn hydroxydichloride stereotriad that is prevalent in the understudied polychlorinated sulfolipid class of natural products. Further, the dichlorination of a (Z)-allylic chlorohydrin affords with high selectivity a stereotetrad present in one of the chlorosulfolipids.
,   A novel and efficient one-pot regioselective elimination-cyclization-Suzuki approach was developed to afford (Z)-3-arylmethyleneisoindolin-1-ones in good to excellent yields from easily accessible o-gem-dihalovinylbenzamides and organoboron reagents.
,   In virgin eyes, the internal aberrations compensate corneal aberrations, and it has been suggested that the compensation may be feedback-driven and developmental, with active or passive adaptive mechanisms potentially responsible for the aberration auto-compensation. The purpose of this study is to investigate the internal higher order aberrations (HOA) following laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK).spective corneal and internal HOA were measured pre-operatively and 6 months post-operatively on 50 consecutive LASIK patients with the OPD-Scan.re were increases to corneal HOA terms Z⁰₄ (0.215 ± 0.092 μm to 0.381 ± 0.180 μm), Z⁰₆ (0.002 ± 0.018 μm to 0.049 ± 0.034 μm) and Z⁴₆ (0.010 ± 0.017 μm to 0.018 ± 0.016 μm) with corresponding increases to internal HOA terms Z⁰₄ (-0.176 ± 0.102 μm to -0.218 ± 0.121 μm), Z⁰₆ (0.004 ± 0.022 μm to -0.010 ± 0.036 μm) and Z⁴₆ (0.008 ± 0.106 μm to -0.015 ± 0.054 μm). The increases in internal aberrations attenuated the increase in corneal aberrations, providing an overall lower quantity of total aberration. A greater increase in corneal spherical aberration and associated compensation was found to occur with greater degrees of attempted myopic correction.neal spherical aberration and Z⁴₆increased with corresponding increases in the internal spherical aberration and Z⁴₆ following LASIK. This may be an active compensatory mechanism of the internal optics to change, in order to reduce the effect of induced corneal HOA.
,   The C=C double-bond in the title compound, C(13)H(13)ClO(3), has a Z configuration. The aliphatic substituents at one end of the double bond, i.e. the CH(3)CO- and C(2)H(5)O(2)C- groups, are aligned at 82.1 (3)° with respect to each other.
,   To analyze background EEG activity of patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) with and without antiepileptic drugs.studied the background EEG activity in 18 patients with JME. The qEEG analysis included absolute power (AP), relative power (RP) and mean frequency (MF) of delta, theta, alpha and beta bands. The Z scores were calculated by comparison with population parameters based on the age-dependent regression function. Seven patients were unmedicated (UM) and eleven medicated (M). UM group presented 69 (4.32%) abnormal Z scores and 227 (9.05%) in the M group (P<0.001). In the UM group, AP delta abnormal Z scores were identified in frontotemporal and occipital leads. In AP alpha and beta bands an increase in Z scores was encountered in frontoparietal leads in three patients. In addition, in three patients, the AP theta Z scores were below -1.96 and distributed in all regions. In the M group, AP beta Z scores were above 1.96 in frontoparietal leads in 7 of 11 patients. The AP delta increased above 1.96 in frontotemporal and occipital leads in 6 patients of 11. The AP alpha showed an abnormal decrease in Z scores in 5 of 11 patients, whereas other 5 patients presented normal scores. The AP theta presented 7 normal Z scores out of 11; this band exhibited the lowest number of abnormalities of the 4.ients with JME have an increase in AP delta, alpha and beta bands, which is more evident in frontoparietal regions.
,   The impact of childhood Crohn's disease (CD) on volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD), bone structure, and muscle mass have not been established. The objective of this longitudinal study was to assess musculoskeletal outcomes in an incident cohort of children with CD using peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT).ia pQCT was performed in 78 CD subjects (ages, 5-18 years) at diagnosis and in 67 over the subsequent year. pQCT outcomes were converted to sex- and race-specific z scores based on reference data in over 650 controls. Multivariable linear regression models identified factors associated with changes in bone outcomes.diagnosis, CD subjects had significant deficits in trabecular vBMD (z score, -1.32+/-1.32; P< .001), cortical section modulus (a measure of bone geometry and strength) (z score, -0.44+/-1.11; P< .01), and muscle (z score, -0.96+/-1.02; P< .001) compared with controls. Over the first 6 months, trabecular vBMD and muscle z scores improved significantly (both, P< .001); however, section modulus worsened (P= .0001), and all 3 parameters remained low after 1 year. Increases in muscle z scores were associated with less severe declines in cortical section modulus z scores. Improvements in trabecular vBMD z scores were greater in prepubertal subjects. Glucocorticoids were associated with increases in cortical vBMD.stantial deficits in trabecular vBMD, cortical bone geometry, and muscle were observed at CD diagnosis. Trabecular vBMD improved incompletely; however, cortical deficits progressed despite improvements in muscle. Glucocorticoids were not associated with bone loss. Therapies to improve bone accrual in childhood CD are needed.
,   We studied kinetics and the equilibrium relationship for the thermolysin-catalyzed synthesis of N-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-aspartyl-L-phenylalanine methyl ester (Z-Asp-PheOMe) from N-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-aspartic acid (Z-Asp) and L-phenylalanine methyl ester (PheOMe) in an aqueous-organic biphasic system. This is a model reaction giving a condensation product with dissociating groups. The kinetics for the synthesis of Z-Asp-PheOMe in aqueous solution saturated with ethyl acetate was expressed by a rate equation for the rapid-equilibrium random bireactant mechanism, and the reverse hydrolysis reaction was zero-order with respect to Z-Asp-PheOMe concentration. The courses of synthesis of Z-Asp-PheOMe in the biphasic system were well explained, by the rate equations obtained for the aqueous solution and by the partition of substrate and condensation product between the both phases. The rate of synthesis in the biphasic system was much lower than in aqueous solution due to the unfavorable partition of PheOMe in the aqueous phase. The equation for the equilibrium yield of Z-Asp-PheOMe in the biphasic system was derived assuming that only the non-ionized forms of the substrate and condensation product exist in the organic phase. It was found theoretically and experimentally that the yield of Z-Asp-PheOMe is maximum at the aqueous-phase pH of around 5, lower than for synthesis in aqueous solution. The effect of the organic solvent on the rate and equilibrium for the synthesis of Z-Asp-PheOMe could be explained by the variation in the partition coefficient. The effect of the partitioning of substrate on the aqueous-phase pH change was also shown.
,   Recently a class of nonparametric statistical methods, including the empirical Bayes (EB) method, the significance analysis of microarray (SAM) method and the mixture model method (MMM), have been proposed to detect differential gene expression for replicated microarray experiments conducted under two conditions. All the methods depend on constructing a test statistic Z and a so-called null statistic z. The null statistic z is used to provide some reference distribution for Z such that statistical inference can be accomplished. A common way of constructing z is to apply Z to randomly permuted data. Here we point our that the distribution of z may not approximate the null distribution of Z well, leading to possibly too conservative inference. This observation may apply to other permutation-based nonparametric methods. We propose a new method of constructing a null statistic that aims to estimate the null distribution of a test statistic directly.ng simulated data and real data, we assess and compare the performance of the existing method and our new method when applied in EB, SAM and MMM. Some interesting findings on operating characteristics of EB, SAM and MMM are also reported. Finally, by combining the idea of SAM and MMM, we outline a simple nonparametric method based on the direct use of a test statistic and a null statistic.
,   Z-DNA affinity adsorption of an Escherichia coli lysate in the presence of excess B-DNA results in a 1000-fold enrichment for three proteins with apparent molecular weights, on SDS/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, of 50,000, 90,000 and 100,000. When retention of these proteins on resins constructed with Z-DNA (Br-poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC)) was compared with retention on resins constructed with B-DNA or Br-B-DNA, it was found that approximately 100-fold more of the 50,000 Mr protein, 1000-fold more of the 90,000 Mr protein, and greater than 1000-fold more of the 100,000 Mr protein was retained on the Z-DNA resin. No difference in retention on the B-DNA versus brominated B-DNA resin was found, indicating that the increased retention on the Z-DNA resin was not due to bromination of the Z-DNA. This demonstration of Z-DNA-specific binding in vitro makes these proteins candidates for binding to Z-DNA in vivo. In an effort to determine the function of these proteins we have prepared monoclonal antibodies against each protein and isolated its respective gene. Western blot analysis of lysogens carrying these genes confirms their identity and shows that the complete coding region and promoter for each gene has been cloned.
,   Discrimination of conspecific and heterospecific signals is a key element in the evolution of specific mate recognition systems. Lepidopteran pheromone signals are typically composed of several compounds that synergize attraction of conspecific and inhibit attraction of heterospecific males. Blends convey specificity, but not their single components, that are typically shared by several species. Many sex pheromones are blends of geometric or positional isomers of straight-chain acetates, while species-specific blends of analogous alcohols have not been described. We have, therefore, studied the attraction of tortricid moths to the geometric isomers (E,E)-, (E,Z)-, (Z,E)- and (Z,Z)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol. Only one species responding to these alcohols seemed to be attracted to a blend of two isomers, while most species are attracted to only one alcohol isomer. Lack of a pronounced synergist or antagonist effect of the other geometric isomers explains the lack of specific attraction to isomer blends and reduces accordingly the number of specific communication signals composed of these alcohols. In comparison, many more species respond to the analogous (E,E)-, (E,Z)-, (Z,E)- and (Z,Z)-8,10-dodecadienyl acetates and their binary blends. The acetate isomers all play a behavioural role, either as attractants, attraction synergists or antagonists, and thus promote specific communication with acetate blends. Male moths seem to discriminate the acetate isomers with greater precision than the analogous alcohols. It is proposed that discrimination is facilitated by steric differences between the four acetate isomers, as compared to the more uniform steric properties of the alcohols.
,   We describe a coarse-grained model for Z-DNA that mimics the DNA shape with a relatively small number of repulsive interaction sites. In addition, negative charges are placed at the phosphate positions. The ionic atmosphere around this grooved Z-DNA model is then investigated with Monte Carlo simulation. Cylindrically averaged concentration profiles as well as the spatial distribution of ions have been calculated. The results are compared to those for other DNA models differing in the repulsive core. This allows the examination of the effect of the DNA shape in the ionic distribution. It is seen that the penetrability of the ions to the DNA groove plays an important role in the ionic distribution. The results are also compared with those reported for B-DNA. In both conformers the ions are structured in alternating layers of positive and negative charge. In Z-DNA the layers are more or less concentric to the molecular axis. Besides, no coions enter into the single groove of this conformer. On the contrary, the alternating layers of B-DNA are also structured along the axial coordinate with some coions penetrating into the major groove. In both cases we have found five preferred locations of the counterions and two for the coions. The concentration of counterions reaches its absolute maximum at the narrow Z-DNA groove and at the minor groove of B-DNA, the value of the maximum being higher in the Z conformer.
,   Retro-allylation of bulky gallium homoallylic alkoxides occurs to generate (Z)- and (E)-crotylgallium reagents stereospecifically, starting from erythro- and threo-homoallylic alcohols, respectively. The (Z)- and (E)-crotylgallium reagents immediately reacted with aromatic aldehydes to afford the corresponding erythro- and threo-homoallylic alcohols, respectively. [reaction: see text]
,   Using the cooperative motion algorithm, the effect of salt valence z(s) and of the reduced temperature T* on a single polyelectrolyte chain as well as on counterions and salt ions themselves is studied. The calculations show that both parameters strongly influence the polymer, causing it to undergo conformational changes. For a given number of the added salt cations (anions) n(s) and temperature T*, the chain takes more and more compact forms as z(s) increases (z(s) > 0). For fixed z(s), in turn, the polymer size reduces sharply as T* drops down from intermediate to low. For high T* configurational the entropy dominates the chain statistics and the mean-square radius of gyration (s2)1/2(T*,n(s),z(s)) approaches its athermal value. The low-temperature polymer collapse is also accompanied by a drop in the effective mean charge per monomer q*(T*,n(s),z(s)) (condensation of ions onto the chain) and the total inner energy e*(T*,n(s),z(s)). Furthermore, the local structure of the system is analyzed by means of pair-correlation functions g(ab)(r,T*,n(s),z(s)). At lower T* they possess sharp local maxima at small interparticle distances r that disappear as T* grows. The former observation indicates that at lower T* the ions tend to group themselves close to each other. In particular, it is concluded that the condensation is dominated by the multivalent salt ions carrying charges of opposite sign to that of monomers.
,   [reaction: see text] The generation of a conjugated alkynyl alkylidene has been achieved using an allyl ether moiety as an intramolecular catalyst delivery vehicle. The reaction of this intermediate with alkenes and alkynes yields conjugated enynes with Z-selectivity.
,   A Z-scheme type photoelectrochemical cell consisting of an electrochemically polymerized photoactive electrode and a dye-sensitized TiO(2) electrode is demonstrated. Nearly 1 V of open circuit voltage (V(OC)) was achieved by the cooperation of a couple of photoactive electrodes toward uphill electron pumping.
,   We have evaluated the B to Z conformational transitions in supercoiled recombinant plasmids containing different lengths of (dC-dG) described in the preceding paper. The sodium chloride-induced right- to left-handed transition in a small segment of the plasmids caused a relaxation of (-) supercoils which was monitored by electrophoretic mobility changes of individual topoisomers on agarose gels containing NaCl at concentrations up to 5.0 M. The number of supercoils relaxed was proportional to the length of the (dC-dG) segment in the plasmid in good agreement with theoretical values. A short B/Z junction region (less than 5 base pairs) was inferred. The stability of the Z conformation in (dC-dG) segments of the plasmids had a strong length dependency; shorter lengths were less stable. Ten base pairs of (dC-dG) was insufficient to allow a Z conformation under the conditions studied. Supercoiling imparts a substantial favorable free energy to the Z conformation, reducing the NaCl concentration necessary to cause the transition. The relationship of supercoiling with the NaCl concentration necessary to cause a B leads to Z transition suggests that supercoiling alone is sufficient to stabilize the Z conformation at physiological salt concentrations. These results support the notion that left-handed DNA has an important biological role.
,   Sexually mature virgin adult males of the green stink bug, Acrosternum hilare attracted sexually mature virgin adult females in laboratory bioassays using a vertical Y-tube. There was no indication that males attracted other males, or that females attracted either sex. These results suggested that A. hilare males produce a sex pheromone. Extracts of odors collected from sexually mature males contained compounds that were not present in extracts from females or sexually immature males. (4S)-Cis-(Z)-bisabolene epoxide ((4S)-cis-Z-BAE) was the major sex-specific component of the extract. The crude extract was attractive to female A. hilare, but when separated into four fractions, only the portion containing (4S)-cis-Z-BAE and the minor component (4S)-trans-Z-BAE was attractive to females. This fraction was as attractive as the crude extract, suggesting that the former contained all the pheromone components. Neither synthetic (4S)-cis-Z-BAE nor (4S)-trans-Z-BAE alone was attractive to females, but a 95:5 cis:trans blend, mimicing the ratio naturally produced by males, was attractive to females in Y-tube bioassays. Bioassays in a field cage showed that significantly more A. hilare females were attracted to cotton string lures treated with 1 mg of a 95:5 blend of (4S)-cis-Z-BAE and (4S)-trans-Z-BAE placed inside a bouquet of alfalfa than to an alfalfa bouquet containing a pentane-treated control. In field cage studies, attraction of females was greatest during the late afternoon and evening hours, and female A. hilare approached the synthetic pheromone source almost exclusively by walking.
,   The current study determined the dynamic stress-strain elastic moduli (E(Y)) and characteristic impedances (Z(0(2-7Hz))) of the main pulmonary artery in open-chest, anesthetized newborn pigs at 2 days, 2 weeks, and 3 months of age. E(Y) and Z(0(2-7Hz)) were compared to those values derived from the Womersley and Moens-Korteweg equations (denoted E(W-MK) and Z(0W-MK), respectively) to test the validity of these equations in describing the elasticity of the intact newborn pulmonary artery. E(Y) was defined as the ratio of stress to strain. The current study hypothesized that: (1) E(Y) and E(W-MK) are numerically similar, and therefore the Womersley and Moens-Korteweg equations accurately describe the viscoelastic properties of the main pulmonary artery of the newborn pig, and (2) that both E(Y) and Z(0) are elevated at birth and undergo a steady decline with maturation. E(Y) was not significantly different from E(W-MK), while Z(0(2-7Hz)) was nearly identical to Z(0W-MK) in all groups. The elastic modulus peaked (P < 0.001) in 2-week-old pigs compared with both younger and older animals, while Z(0(2-7Hz)) decreased with increasing age (48 h = 1237 +/- 251 [SEM] dyn s cm(-5), 2-week = 433 +/- 95 dyn s cm(-5), 3 month = 162 +/- 17 dyn s cm(-5), P < 0.001). These experiments validate the Womersley and Moens-Korteweg equations as accurately describing the elastic properties of the intact newborn pig pulmonary artery. These data also demonstrate that a diminution in Z(0) may occur even with increased wall stiffness, as observed in our 2-week-old pigs.
,   A behavioral syndrome consisting of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-dependent behaviors (e.g. forepaw treading, retropulsion and splayed hindlimbs) as well as hyperthermia occurred after bilateral injection of the (6S, 10bR)-(+)-enantiomer of McN-5652-Z into the cerebral ventricles in pargyline-treated rats. Both the behavioral syndrome and hyperthermia produced by (+)-McN-5652-Z were counteracted by parachlorophenylalanine or ketanserin. The (6R, 10bS)-(-)-enantiomer of McN-5652-Z influenced neither behavior nor body temperature. The enantiomers of McN-5652-Z differed also in their ability to inhibit ex vivo binding of paroxetine in rat frontal cortex and hypothalamus, in vitro uptake of 5-HT in rat blood platelets, and 5-HT-induced contraction of rat vascular smooth muscle, with (+)-McN-5652-Z being most active. No difference was observed between the effects of (+)- and (-)-McN-5652-Z on 5-HT metabolism by rat brain monoamine oxidase. Molecular models of N-protonated enantiomers having a cis B,C-ring juncture and a B-ring chair conformation were differentiated using a hypothetical model of the 5-HT uptake area. The findings indicate that the enantiomers of McN-5652-Z are useful tools for studying the stereoselectivity of behavioral and pharmacological effects exerted by serotonergic neurotransmission.
,   Short incubation of [1-14C]alpha-linolenic acid with whole homogenate of leaves of corn (Zea mays L.) led to the formation of 4 major lipoxygenase products, i.e. 12-oxo-13-hydroxy-9(Z),15(Z)-octadecadienoic acid, 12-oxo-10,15(Z)-phytodienoic acid (12-oxo-PDA), 9(R,S)-hydroxy-12-oxo-10(E),15(Z)-octadecadienoic acid, and 13-oxo-9,11-tridecadienoic acid. Trapping experiments demonstrated transient appearance of the unstable allene oxide, 12,13(S)-epoxy-9(Z),11,15(Z)-octadecatrienoic acid, precursor of the three first mentioned compounds. The major lipoxygenase products formed from endogenous alpha-linolenic acid upon homogenization of corn leaves were identified as 12-oxo-13-hydroxy-9(Z),15(Z)-octadecadienoic acid (11.4 +/- 2.4 micrograms/g) and 12-oxo-PDA (5.8 +/- 1.2 micrograms/g). Steric analysis showed that 12-oxo-PDA formed from endogenous alpha-linolenic acid was largely the natural 9(S),13(S) enantiomer. Thus, corn leaves, like seeds of corn, contain hydroperoxide dehydrase and allene oxide cyclase. However, the lipoxygenase of corn leaves specifically catalyzed oxygenation of the 13 (omega 6) position of alpha-linolenic acid and thus differed from the previously recognized corn seed lipoxygenase which is specific for the 9 position.
,   We describe a new method of Z-plasty for the snapping hip caused by a tight band in the iliotibial tract. Eight hips in six patients were treated by this method and at follow-up all had a successful result, with relief of snapping.
,   We derive first next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic resummations for jet-veto efficiencies in Higgs and Z-boson production at hadron colliders. Matching with next-to-next-to-leading order results allows us to provide a range of phenomenological predictions for the LHC, including cross-section results, detailed uncertainty estimates, and comparisons to current widely used tools.
,   We sought to determine whether, in a specialty referral clinic, parental perceptions of their child's obesity were commensurate with the child's body mass index z score. Secondarily, we examined the impact of birth weight and parental body mass index on their child's body mass index z score and review results of an intake questionnaire.ss-sectional studyversity of Michigan from March 21, 2003 through June 30, 2004hty-two children ages 1-20.2 years of agey mass index z score for all participants was calculated. An intake questionnaire was completed by caregivers in which they were asked to describe their child as little overweight, overweight, very overweight or obese.n body mass index z score was compared to each parental descriptor. Regression analysis related body mass index z score to birthweight and parental body mass index.y mass index z score was not related to parental descriptors. Maternal body mass index and child birthweight were predictors of the child's body mass index z score (r2=0.15, p<0.05; and r2=0.11, p<0.05, respectively). Both together produced a better model than either alone (r2=0.23, p<0.05). There was no relationship between paternal and child body mass index z score (p>0.05).re is a divergence between the parental perception of childhood obesity and the clinical definition that persists even in the context of an explicit referral. Given the significant impact of maternal weight on childhood overweight, education for prevention of overweight youth should encompass prenatal, early childhood and adolescent health maintenance.
,   (Z)-trisubstituted allylic alcohols are widespread structural motifs in natural products and biologically active compounds but are difficult to directly prepare. Introduced herein is a general one-pot multicomponent coupling method for the synthesis of (Z)-alpha,alpha,beta-trisubstituted allylic alcohols. (Z)-trisubstituted vinylzinc reagents are formed in situ by initial hydroboration of 1-bromo-1-alkynes. Addition of dialkylzinc reagents induces a 1,2-metalate rearrangement that is followed by a boron-to-zinc transmetalation. The resulting vinylzinc reagents add to a variety of prochiral aldehydes to produce racemic (Z)-trisubstituted allylic alcohols. When enantioenriched aldehyde substrates are employed, (Z)-trisubstituted allylic alcohols are isolated with high dr (>20:1 in many cases). For example, vinylation of enantioenriched benzyl-protected alpha- and beta-hydroxy propanal derivatives furnished the expected anti-Felkin addition products via chelation control. Surprisingly, silyl-protected alpha-hydroxy aldehydes also afford anti-Felkin addition products. A protocol for the catalytic asymmetric addition of (Z)-trisubstituted vinylzinc reagents to prochiral aldehydes with a (-)-MIB-based catalyst has also been developed. Several additives were investigated as inhibitors of the Lewis acidic alkylzinc halide byproducts, which promote the background reaction to form the racemate. Alpha-ethyl and alpha-cyclohexyl (Z)-trisubstituted allylic alcohols can now be synthesized with excellent levels of enantioselectivity in the presence of diamine inhibitors.
,   Proteins dissociated from SV40 minichromosomes by increasing NaCl concentration were tested for their binding to Z-DNA [Br-poly(dG-dC)] and B-DNA [poly (dG-dC)]. Z-DNA binding proteins are largely released in 0.2 M NaCl whereas most B-DNA binding proteins are not released until 0.6 M NaCl. Incubation of SV40 minichromosomes with Z-DNA-Sephadex in low salt solution results in proteins with Z-DNA binding activity (PZ proteins). These proteins bind to negatively supercoiled DNAs containing left-handed Z-DNA but not to relaxed DNAs. They compete with anti-Z-DNA antibodies in binding to negatively supercoiled DNAs. The binding is tighter to negatively supercoiled SV40 DNA than to other plasmids, suggesting sequence-specific Z-DNA binding. PZ proteins binding to negatively supercoiled SV40 DNA interfere with cleavage at the Sph I sites, within the 72 bp repeat sequences of the viral control region, but not with cleavage at the Bgl I site, at the origin of replication. Removal of PZ proteins also exposes the Sph I sites in the SV40 minichromosomes while addition of PZ proteins makes the sites inaccessible.
,   A highly efficient carbon-carbon triple bond cleavage reaction of (Z)-enynols was developed, which offered a new route to highly substituted butenolides. The methodology is realized by a tandem reaction using a single gold(I) catalyst, which could catalyze different reactions of cyclization/oxidative cleavage in the same vessel.
,   We demonstrate theoretically and experimentally that the sensitivity of a fiber Mach-Zehnder (M-Z) interferometer can be enhanced by coupling fiber ring resonators with it. The experimental results agree well with theoretical predications that combining slow light with fast light will further increase the sensitivity of a fiber M-Z interferometer.
,   A new secoiridoid glycoside characterized as (8 Z)-nuezhenide A along with five known glycosides, (8 E)-nuezhenide, (8 Z)-nuezhenide, oleonuezhenide, osmanthuside B and osmanthuside D, were isolated from the n-BuOH fraction of Ligustrum japonicum leaves. All six compounds significantly protected human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells from 6-hydroxydopamine-induced neurotoxicity.
,   To compare the efficiency of turquoise light with that of TL52 blue in treatment of preterm infants with jaundice at the same level of body irradiance.ants with gestational age 28-37 weeks and non-haemolytic hyperbilirubinemia were treated for 24 h with either turquoise light (OSRAM L18W/860 fluorescent lamps) or blue light (Philips TL20W/52 fluorescent lamps). The concentrations of serum total bilirubin and bilirubin isomers were measured by the Vitros routine method and by HPLC, respectively. decrease in serum concentrations of total bilirubin, total bilirubin isomers and the toxic Z,Z-bilirubin was greatest for infants treated with turquoise light. Further, the increase in Z,E-bilirubin was smaller and there was a trend towards a higher rise in E,Z-bilirubin.quoise light has a greater bilirubin reducing effect than TL52 blue light with equal irradiance, expressed both by serum total bilirubin, total bilirubin isomers and Z,Z-bilirubin, i.e. the turquoise spectral range is more efficient than the blue. This is in accordance with deeper penetration into the skin, lower production of the Z,E-bilirubin and greater production of E,Z-bilirubin and lumirubin, in infants under turquoise light. This suggests, given equal irradiances, that light in the turquoise spectral range is preferable to the TL52 blue in treatment of newborn jaundiced infants.
,   Dinuclear bis(platinum) complexes have been shown previously to induce the B-->Z transition in synthetic DNAs (Nucleic Acids Res. 7, 1697-1703, J. Inorganic Biochem. 54, 207-220). In this paper, the reversibility of the Z conformation back to the B form was assessed by treatment of the induced Z form in poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) with ethidium bromide (Etd). Z-DNA induced by the tetra-amine cations [{Pt(NH3)3}2(H2N(CH2)nNH2)]4+, which are capable of only electrostatic interactions with the polynucleotide, was readily reversible. The spectroscopic data mirrored that of ethidium bromide/poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) in the presence of 4.4 M NaCl. In contrast, Z-DNA induced by the bifunctional complexes [{trans-PtCl(NH3)2}2(H2N(CH2)nNH2)]2+ did not produce spectra typical of Etd intercalation and reversal to B-form DNA. The original Z-form CD spectra of DNA treated with the bifunctional complexes could be reobtained following removal of Etd by extensive dialysis. The bifunctional complexes are very effective interstrand cross-linking agents. The data suggest that interstrand cross-linking by dinuclear complexes can stabilize or "lock" the Z-conformation prohibiting its reversal to the B-form. The implications for the biological activity of the dinuclear complexes are briefly discussed.
,   Myotilin cDNA has been cloned for the first time from chicken muscles and sequenced. Ectopically expressed chicken and human YFP-myotilin fusion proteins localized in avian muscle cells in the Z-bodies of premyofibrils and the Z-bands of mature myofibrils. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments demonstrated that chicken and human myotilin were equally dynamic with 100% mobile fraction in premyofibrils and Z-bands of mature myofibrils. Seven myotilin mutants cDNAs (S55F, S55I, T57I, S60C, S60F, S95I, R405K) with known muscular dystrophy association localized in mature myofibrils in the same way as normal myotilin without affecting the formation and maintenance of myofibrils. N- and C-terminal halves of human myotilin were cloned and expressed as YFP fusions in myotubes and cardiomyocytes. N-terminal myotilin (aa 1-250) localized weakly in Z-bands with a high level of unincorporated protein and no adverse effect on myofibril structure. C-terminal myotilin (aa 251-498) localized in Z-bands and in aggregates. Formation of aggregated C-terminal myotilin was accompanied by the loss of Z-band localization of C-terminal myotilin and partial or complete loss of alpha-actinin from the Z-bands. In regions of myotubes with high concentrations of myotilin aggregates there were no alpha-actinin positive Z-bands or organized F-actin. The dynamics of the C-terminal-myotilin and N-terminal myotilin fragments differed significantly from each other and from full-length myotilin. In contrast, no significant changes in dynamics were detected after expression in myotubes of myotilin mutants with single amino acid changes known to be associated with myopathies.
,   Ru-catalyzed allylic alkylations are a highly interesting alternative to Pd-catalyzed reactions. Ru complexes show a high tendency for regioretention, especially for branched and (Z)-configured substrates, and they do not undergo isomerization of the allyl intermediates formed. Therefore, (Z)-substrates conserve their olefin geometry, and a perfect chirality transfer is observed with optically active substrates.
,   We discuss the processing of x-ray absorption spectra from photoionized plasma experiments at Z. The data was recorded with an imaging spectrometer equipped with two elliptically bent potassium acid phthalate (KAP) crystals. Both time-integrated and time-resolved data were recorded. In both cases, the goal is to obtain the transmission spectra for quantitative analysis of plasma conditions.
,   Arenaviruses can cause severe hemorrhagic fever diseases in humans, with limited prophylactic or therapeutic measures. A small RING-domain viral protein Z has been shown to mediate the formation of virus-like particles and to inhibit viral RNA synthesis, although its biological roles in an infectious viral life cycle have not been directly addressed. By taking advantage of the available reverse genetics system for a model arenavirus, Pichinde virus (PICV), we provide the direct evidence for the essential biological roles of the Z protein's conserved residues, including the G2 myristylation site, the conserved C and H residues of RING domain, and the poorly characterized C-terminal L79 and P80 residues. Dicodon substitutions within the late (L) domain (PSAPPYEP) of the PICV Z protein, although producing viable mutant viruses, have significantly reduced virus growth, a finding suggestive of an important role for the intact L domain in viral replication. Further structure-function analyses of both PICV and Lassa fever virus Z proteins suggest that arenavirus Z proteins have similar molecular mechanisms in mediating their multiple functions, with some interesting variations, such as the role of the G2 residue in blocking viral RNA synthesis. In summary, our studies have characterized the biological roles of the Z protein in an infectious arenavirus system and have shed important light on the distinct functions of its domains in virus budding and viral RNA regulation, the knowledge of which may lead to the development of novel antiviral drugs.
,   Z (Glu342 --> Lys) and S(iiyama) (Ser53 --> Phe) genetic variations of human alpha1-antitrypsin (alpha1-AT) cause a secretion blockage in the hepatocytes, leading to alpha1-AT deficiency in the plasma. Using in vitro folding analysis, we have shown previously that these mutations interfere with the proper folding of polypeptides. To understand the fundamental cause for the secretion defect of the Z and S(iiyama) variants of alpha1-AT, we investigated in vivo folding and stability of these variant alpha1-AT using the secretion system of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Various thermostable mutations suppressing the folding block of the Z variant in vitro corrected the secretion defect as well as the intracellular degradation in the yeast secretion system. Significantly, the extent of suppression in the secretion defect of Z protein was proportional to the extent of suppression in the folding defect, assuring that the in vivo defect associated with the Z variant is primarily derived from the folding block. In contrast, the folding and secretion efficiency of S(iiyama) was not much improved by the same mutations. In addition, none of the rarely secreted S(iiyama) alpha1-AT carrying the stabilizing mutations for the wild type and Z variant were active. It appears that the major defect in S(iiyama) variant is the loss of stability in contrast to the kinetic block of folding in the Z variant.
,   Analysis of ventricular late potentials (LP) with signal-averaged ECG (SAECG) using three bipolar, orthogonal X,Y, Z leads is a validated method of risk-stratification in patients prone to ventricular tachycardia. The aim of this study was to validate a ECG system, which allows LP analysis using X,Y, Z leads mathematically derived from the standard 12-lead ECG.36 patients (age 56 +/- 12 years, coronary artery disease 71%, LVEF 46 +/- 14%) with known or suspected ventricular tachyarrhythmia, two consecutive SAECGs were recorded, one with mathematically derived and another one with true X,Y, Z leads. Time domain measurements with these different lead systems were compared using linear regression analysis and "Bland-Altman" plots. Correlation was good (r = 0.92) for the filtered QRS complex duration, but poor for the terminal QRS amplitude (RMS) and duration (LAS) criteria (r = 0.66 and 0.61, respectively; P < 0.0001). Defining LPS as present if at least two of the three time domain criteria were abnormal, the result matched in 28 (78%), but differed in 8 (22%) patients.CG using X,Y, Z leads mathematically derived from the standard 12-lead ECG compared to true bipolar X,Y, Z leads show a close correlation in filtered QRS duration, but can differ considerably in the other time domain measurements, resulting in different interpretation of LP analysis in 22%. Therefore, SAECG registration should currently be performed with true X,Y, Z leads, until the accuracy of other approaches is validated.
,   In the title compound, C(17)H(14)I(4)N(2)O(2), there are two intra-molecular O-H⋯N hydrogen bonds, which make S(6) ring motifs. In the crystal, there are no significant inter-molecular inter-actions present.
,   A simple HPLC method had been developed and validated to quantify Z-3,5,4'-trimethoxystilbene (Z-TMS), a phyto-stilbene with potent anti-cancer activities in rat plasma. Chromatographic separation was achieved on a reversed phase-HPLC column, which was protected by a guard column through a 13.5-min gradient delivery of a mixture of acetonitrile and water at a flow rate of 1.5 ml/min at 50 degrees C. The UV absorbance at 300 nm was recorded. Z-TMS and E-stilbene (internal standard) eluted at 8.8 and 9.3 min, respectively. The calibration curve was linear within the range of 33-2500 ng/ml (R(2)>0.9995) and 10 ng/ml was the lower limit of detection. The intra- and inter-day precisions were good and the relative standard deviation was all lower than 10%. The analytical recovery of Z-TMS in plasma ranged from 94.6+/-9.1% to 97.0+/-2.1%. This HPLC method was successfully applied to assess the pharmacokinetic profile of Z-TMS in Sprague-Dawley rats using hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HP-beta-CyD) as a dosing vehicle. Although Z-TMS displayed negligible oral bioavailability, it had a fairly long terminal elimination half-life, abundant plasma drug exposure and limited clearance following intravenous administration. As Z-TMS had favorable intravenous pharmacokinetic profile, further investigation on its potential as a cancer chemotherapeutic agent is warranted.
,   The significance of variability in bone mineral density (BMD) between lumbar vertebrae L1 to L4 in the same individual was investigated by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in 1000 normal women aged 40-60 years (average 52 years) and 145 women aged 45-80 years (average 65 years) with vertebral osteoporosis. The mean BMD increased from L1 to L4 in normal women from 0.841 g/cm2 to 1.017 g/cm2, and in osteoporotics from 0.562 g/cm2 to 0.709 g/cm2. Z scores for osteoporotic women (Z = osteoporotic BMD - age-normal BMD/normal SD) were significantly lower for individual vertebrae compared with L1-4 and at L4 compared with L1, L2 and L3 (p < 0.001). The mean difference between Z scores for the highest and lowest vertebrae in an individual was 0.70 for normals (SD = 0.40) and 0.64 for osteoporotics (SD = 0.36). The mean Z score difference between the L1-4 Z score and the lowest individual vertebral Z score was 0.36 for normals (SD = 0.23) and 0.06 for osteoporotics (SD = 0.31). However, receiver operating analysis (ROC) curves showed that the lowest Z score for any individual vertebra did not provide improved discrimination between normals and osteoporotics when compared with the L1-4 Z score. The area under the ROC curve for L1-4 was significantly greater than for individual vertebrae (p < 0.05) and that for L4 was significantly smaller than for L1, L2 or L3 (p < 0.001). In conclusion, L1-4 BMD gives greater diagnostic sensitivity for osteoporosis than individual vertebrae, and L1, L2 and L3 are better than L4.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   The Z allele (Glu342Lys) in α1-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is a combined deficiency and dysfunctional allele. Carrying one Z allele induces a risk of a more aggressive evolution in patients with a chronic liver disease. As most of the carriers of Z allele do not have overt liver disease, it is likely that Z allele-containing livers have been used previously for liver transplantation. We analyzed the incidence, epidemiology, and clinical features of AAT accumulation in the hepatocytes after liver transplantation.low-up biopsies of liver transplant recipients were analyzed with periodic acid Schiff staining until 2006 (n=486); from 2006 on (n=303), all biopsies were stained with a specific monoclonal antibody against mutated AATZ protein. Genotyping of both recipient and donor was performed in the case of positive staining.789 liver transplantation patients, six patients (0.8%) showed mutated AATZ accumulation in the transplanted liver. Mutation analysis confirmed the presence of the Z allele in all donor organs including one transplanted organ with the SZ phenotype. There was a clear concordance between the isoelectrical focusing of the recipient AAT after transplantation and the genotype of the donor.sumed healthy donor organs containing the Z allele were used for transplantation in 0.8% of cases in our series. As the presence of a Z allele is an independent risk factor of aggravation of chronic liver disease, AATZ accumulation in biopsies after liver transplantation should be actively looked for.
,   A rapid, sensitive and reliable method has been developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of seven taxoids including 10-deacetylbaccatin III (10-DAB III), baccatin III, 5-epi-canadensene, taxinine M, 10-deacetyltaxol (10-DAT), cephalomannine and paclitaxel in rat plasma using docetaxel as the internal standard (IS). The plasma samples were pretreated by liquid-liquid extraction with methyl tert-butyl ether. The chromatographic separation was achieved on a C18 column (50 mm × 2.1 mm, 1.8 μm, Waters, USA) with a gradient elution program consisting of methanol and water (containing 0.1% formic acid) at a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min. Detection was performed under the selected reaction monitoring (SRM) scan using an electrospray ionization (ESI) in the positive ion mode. The mass transitions were as follows: m/z 567.4→444.9 for 10-DAB III, m/z 609.0→549.3 for baccatin III, m/z 617.4→496.9 for 5-epi-canadensene, m/z 709.6→649.3 for taxinine M, m/z 834.8→307.9 for 10-DAT, m/z 854.5→285.4 for cephalomannine, m/z 876.8→307.3 for paclitaxel and m/z 830.8→549.6 for IS, respectively. All calibration curves exhibited good linearity (r(2)>0.99) over a wide concentration range for all components. The intra-day and inter-day precisions at three different levels were both less than 14.3% in terms of relative standard deviation (RSD) and the accuracies ranged from -8.3% to 14.8% in terms of relative error (RE). The extraction recoveries of the seven compounds ranged from 62.5% to 100.5%. The developed method was successfully applied to the pharmacokinetic study of the seven taxoids in rat plasma after oral administration of the crude extract of the twigs and leaves of Taxus yunnanensis.
,   The left-handed Z-DNA has been identified as a gene regulating element. Therefore the generation of Z-DNA through metal complexes might be an innovative way for the regulation of gene expression. Use of the new dinuclear complex N,N,N',N'-tetrakis-[2-(3,5-dimethylpyrazol-1-yl)ethyl]-1,3-propylenediamine-bis(nickel(II) dinitrate) (2) reversibly induced Z-DNA formation. However, when a 1:1 ratio of metal/dinucleating ligand was used as a control, the midpoint of the B- to Z-DNA transition was at the same nickel concentration as in case of the dinuclear complex. The novel mononuclear analogue, N-methyl-N,N-bis-[2-(3,5-dimethylpyrazol-1-yl)ethyl]amine-nickel(II)-dinitrate (3) was inducing the Z-DNA at a similar ratio versus nucleotides as free nickel(II) itself. For the first time, proton and nickel binding constants for the bis-[2-(pyrazol-1-yl)ethyl]amine ligand system are reported and discussed. Both nickel complexes 2 and 3 were structurally characterized by single crystal analysis. Furthermore, the synthesis of the two new ligands, N,N,N',N'-tetrakis-[2-(3,5-dimethylpyrazol-1-yl)ethyl]-1,2-propylenediamine (4) and N-methyl-N,N-bis-[2-(3,5-dimethylpyrazol-1-yl)ethyl]amine (5) is described. The two major synthetic pathways leading to polypyrazoyl amines in general are critically discussed with respect to yield, reproducibility and handling of the intermediates.
,   A comprehensive linkage map for chicken chromosome Z was constructed as the result of a large-scale screening of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). A total of 308 SNPs were assigned to Z based on the genotype distribution among 182 birds representing several populations. A linkage map comprising 210 markers and spanning 200.9 cM was established by analyzing a small Red junglefowl/White Leghorn intercross. There was excellent agreement between the linkage map for Z and a recently released assembly of the chicken genome (May 2006). Almost all SNPs assigned to chromosome Z in the present study are on Z in the new genome assembly. The remaining 12 loci are all found on unassigned contigs that can now be assigned to Z. The average recombination rate was estimated at 2.7 cM/Mb but there was a very uneven distribution of recombination events with both cold and hot spots of recombination. The existence of one of the major hot spots of recombination, located around position 39.4 Mb, was supported by the observed pattern of linkage disequilibrium. Thirteen markers from unassigned contigs were shown to be located on chromosome W. Three of these contigs included genes that have homologues on chromosome Z. The preliminary assignment of three more genes to the gene-poor W chromosome may be important for studies on the mechanism of sex determination and dosage compensation in birds.
,   A series of (Z)-trans-3-azolyl-2-methylchromanone oxime ethers were stereoselectively synthesized and tested for in vitro antifungal activity. Many of these derivatives exhibit high activity against Candida albicans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus niger, and Microsporum gypseum.
,   A sensitive and specific procedure is described for the determination of the antisecretory prostaglandin acetyltrimoprostil and its metabolite trimoprostil in human or dog plasma using gas chromatography--negative-ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry (GC--NICI-MS). Trideuterated analogues of both compounds are added to plasma as the internal standards. The plasma is extracted at pH 7.3 with benzene--dichloromethane (9:1), and the residue of the organic extract is reacted at room temperature with pentafluorobenzyl bromide in the presence of 18-crown-6-ether and potassium acetate. The derivatives are reconstituted in heptane, and appropriate aliquots are analyzed by GC--NICI-MS with selected-ion monitoring of the intense (M--C6F5CH2)- fragment ions of acetyltrimoprostil (m/z 419), trimoprostil (m/z 377), and their respective trideuterated analogues (m/z 422 and m/z 380, respectively). Quantitation of an experimental plasma sample is based on a comparison of the m/z 419 versus m/z 422 and m/z 377 versus m/z 380 ion ratios in each sample to that obtained from the analysis of drug-free plasma fortified with various amounts of both protio compounds, and a fixed amount of each trideuterated internal standard. The limit of quantitation of the assay for human plasma is 0.2 ng ml-1 with mean relative standard deviations at this concentration of 15.5% and 9.7% for acetyltrimoprostil and trimoprostil, respectively.
,   This study describes the use of electrical impedance Z to continuously measure the stroke volume SV of a skeletal muscle-powered ventricle (SMV). An SMV was constructed surgically in four anaesthetised dogs. The rectus abdominis (two dogs) or latissimus dorsi (two dogs) muscle was wrapped around a compressible pouch, the ends of which were connected to a saline-filled (0.9 per cent) mock circulation. The motor nerves to the muscle were stimulated to produce tetanic contractions at a rate of 10 min-1. Z was measured between brass sleeve electrodes within the end conduits of the pouch. To derive a simple expression relating pouch volume V to Z, the pouch was represented as two truncated cones with their bases joined. For V ranging from 53 to 103 ml, the relationship between Z and 1/square root of V was nearly linear; i.e. Z = m(1/square root of V) + b. Impedance-derived stroke volume SV (delta Z) was calculated using this linear approximation and the impedance measured just before and after muscle contraction. The stroke volume SV (EM) ejected by the pouch during muscle contraction was measured with an electromagnetic flowmeter. The linear regression coefficients ranged from 0.99 to 2.55; the correlation coefficients ranged from 0.90 to 0.98. In general, SV(delta Z) tracked SV(EM) very well, although SV(delta Z) tended to overestimate SV(EM).
,   The novel fatty acids (Z)-6-nonadecenoic acid (1) and (Z)-17-pentacosenoic acid (2) were characterized in the sponge Geodia gibberosa. These fatty acids were mainly found in phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylcholine.
,   This study aimed to determine the early growth patterns of preterm infants who required prolonged hospitalisation in terms of body weight Z-score, and to explore the influencing factors and predictors of their growth. criteria of enrolment included preterm birth, singleton pregnancy, hospitalisation within the first 24 hours of life, hospital stay ≥ 28 days and clinical follow-up beyond 91 days of corrected age. Body weight Z-scores and the incidence of underweight infants were reviewed periodically, and the influencing factors and possible predictors of growth analysed.y weight Z-scores of all infants of gestational age (GA) groups kept decreasing, with a trough seen at 36 weeks corrected gestational age (CGA). At corrected full-term, body weight Z-scores for all birth weight groups achieved birth level and were higher than that at 36 weeks CGA. Body weight Z-scores at 61 days corrected age was (-0.300 × GA [weeks] + 0.210 × birth weight [g] + 0.682 × body weight Z-score) at 40 weeks CGA. The cut-off values for body weight Z-score at birth (cut-off, -1.79; sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 91.3%) and 61 days corrected age (cut-off, -1.95; sensitivity, 100%; specificity, 97.1%) were selected to predict the risk of being underweight at 183 days corrected age.ly growth restriction is a practical problem in preterm infants with prolonged hospitalisation. Body weight Z-scores at 40 weeks CGA and 61 days corrected age can be used to predict body weight gain prior to 183 days corrected age in these infants.
,   (Z)-2-Chloroalk-2-en-1-ols are obtained in excellent yields from a wide variety of aldehydes by addition of (E)-chromium vinylidene carbenoids, stereospecifically generated from trichloroalkanes using CrCl(2) in THF at room temperature. [reaction: see text]
,   To investigate the effects of Z-100, an arabinomannan extracted from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, on the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (LP-BM5 MuLV) infection in mice.BL/6 mice infected intraperitoneally with 4.5 x 10(2) PFU/mouse of LP-BM5 MuLV (MAIDS mice) were treated intraperitoneally with a 10-mg/kg dose of Z-100 every other day beginning 1 day after the viral infection. MAIDS mice treated with Z-100 were compared with control mice (MAIDS mice treated with saline) for their survival and splenomegaly after LP-BM5 infection. Cytokine-producing profiles of splenic T cells from these two groups of mice were also compared.n MAIDS mice treated with Z-100 were compared with those of control mice, a decrease in splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy was observed. Splenomegaly was markedly enhanced in MAIDS mice treated intraperitoneally with IL-4 or IL-10. When MAIDS mice were treated with Z-100, their survival rates were significantly increased compared to those of controls. Splenic T cells from control mice produced type-2 cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10). However, a decreased production of type-2 cytokines by splenic T cells from MAIDS mice treated with Z-100 was demonstrated.00 could decrease the severity of the LP-BM5 MuLV infection through the regulation of MAIDS-associated type-2 T-cell responses.
,   Alpha1-antitrypsin (AAT) is the main protease inhibitor in human plasma. There are more than 75 variants of this protein that differ from each other by their isoelectric point. Most of these alleles cause a reduction in AAT levels; the most common allele is Pi*Z. The main complications related to the Pi*Z allele are obstructive pulmonary disease and liver disease. Some Pi*Z allele carriers present cholestatic jaundice and cirrhosis. The Z type is associated with a secretion defect, which leads to deficiency of AAT and to the formation of intrahepatocytic inclusions in affected subjects. The diagnosis of AAT deficiency can be made by different techniques, including molecular analysis, although the final diagnosis should be done in conjunction with demonstration of the periodic acid-Schiff-positive globules on liver biopsy. In this study, specimens of 29 patients with cryptogenic cirrhosis between age 1 month and 18 years, and of 100 controls were submitted to polymerase chain reaction followed by digestion with TaqI enzyme. Five of the 29 patients had undergone liver transplantation. Three patients were heterozygous for the Pi*Z allele, and two were homozygous (allele frequency = 12.07%; 7/58). Among the controls, who represented the population of Porto Alegre, 1 in 100 individuals was heterozygous for the Pi*Z allele, resulting in an allele frequency of 0.5% (1/200). The high frequency of Pi*Z alleles among the patients indicates the usefulness of AAT molecular testing in children with cholestatic jaundice and cirrhosis.
,   In the title compound, C(8)H(7)ClN(4)S(2), the thia-zole ring is essentially planar [r.m.s. deviation = 0.0011 (2) Å] and conformation of the thia-zolidine ring is twisted on the C-C bond. The C=N bond has a Z configuration.
,   Using a combination of spectroscopic techniques, quasi-elastic laser light scattering (QLS), and electron microscopy (EM), we have been able to show that the B to Z transition of poly(dG-m5dC) X poly(dG-m5dC) is accompanied by extensive condensation of the DNA in both low and high ionic strength buffers. At low concentrations of NaCl (2 mM Na+), an intermediate rodlike form, which exhibits a circular dichroism (CD) spectrum characteristic of an equimolar mixture of B and Z forms, is observed. This is produced by the orderly self-association of about four molecules of the polymer after prolonged incubation of a concentrated solution at 4 degrees C. On addition of 5 microM Co(NH3)63+, the CD spectrum of the intermediate changes to that of the Z form, which is visualized as a dense population of discrete toroids on an EM grid stained with uranyl acetate. On the other hand, addition of NaCl to a solution of poly(dG-m5dC) X poly(dG-m5dC) in the absence of any multivalent ion condenses the polymer to toroidal structures at the midpoint (0.75 M NaCl) of the B to Z transition. Further addition of NaCl unfolds these toroids to rodlike structures, which show characteristic Z-form CD spectra. These results show that Z DNA can take up a variety of tertiary structural forms and indicate that its inverted CD spectrum is due to its left-handed helical sense rather than to differential scattering artifacts.
,   We have developed a new rat model of gangrenous peripheral vascular disease with vascular injury and occlusive thrombi. Rat hind limb gangrene was induced by injecting arachidonic acid (2 mg/leg) into the femoral artery. Using this model, we evaluated the effect of a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist, Z-335, on the progression of hind limb gangrene. Z-335 (10 mg/kg/d, p.o.) ameliorated arachidonic acid-induced hind limb gangrene. In contrast, daltroban (10 mg/kg/d, p.o.) and cilostazol (100 mg/kg/d, p.o.) tended to improve the hind limb gangrene but their effects failed to reach statistical significance. Z-335 (10 mg/kg, p.o.) inhibited U-46619-induced, but not collagen-induced, platelet aggregation in rat whole blood. Daltroban (10 mg/kg, p.o.) showed a tendency to inhibit U-46619-induced platelet aggregation. Cilostazol (100 mg/kg, p.o.) did not inhibit U-46619- or collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Histopathological examination of the injured paws showed that Z-355 (10 mg/kg, p.o.) had partly inhibited the formation of occlusive thrombi. These results indicate that the thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist Z-335 is effective against arachidonic acid-induced hind limb gangrene in rats. Our experiments suggest that Z-335 may be beneficial in the prevention of gangrenous peripheral vascular disease.
,   The preparation and thermodynamic property of 8-methylguanine (8mG)-containing oligonucleotides were described. It was found that the introduction of a methyl group at the guanine C8 position remarkably stabilizes the Z conformation of short oligonucleotides of a variety of base sequences under low salt conditions.
,   1. E- and Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline are major metabolites of amitriptyline and nortriptyline in man. Upon incubation with human liver microsomes or cytosol, these metabolites were oxidized to the corresponding ketones, E- and Z-10-oxonortriptyline. (+)-E- and (+)-Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline were distinctly preferred over the (-)-isomers as substrates. NADP+ supported the oxidation in cytosol, whereas in microsomes NAD+ was the best cofactor. 2. Incubation of E- and Z-10-oxonortriptyline with NADPH and cytosol resulted in the nearly exclusive formation of (+)-E- and (+)-Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline. Kinetic analysis revealed high-affinity reduction (K(m) 1-2 microM) of the two ketones and an additional low-affinity component with the E-isomer. 10-Oxonortriptyline reduction was also catalysed by rabbit, but not by rat or guinea pig liver cytosol. 3. With [4-3H]NADPH as cosubstrate, tritium was incorporated into E- and Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline preferentially from the pro-4R position. Redox cycling of (+)-E- and (+)-Z-10-hydroxynortriptyline in cytosol in the presence of NAD- and NADPH was indicated by 3H incorporation from [pro-4R-3H]NADPH. 4. Recombinant human carbonyl reductase catalysed low-affinity reduction of E-10-oxonortriptyline with preferential transfer of the pro-4S-3H of labelled NADPH. 5. Ketone reduction in cytosol was strongly inhibited by 9,10-phenanthrenequinone and dehydrolithocholic acid and moderately by other 3-oxo steroids and some anti-inflammatory drugs. 6. The high-affinity reduction of E- and Z-10-oxonortriptyline and the oxidation of the alcohols in cytosol are probably mediated by a member of the aldo-keto reductase family of enzymes.
,   The dispersion/incorporation of Eudragit S100 powder as a filler in cellulose acetate butyrate (CAB-551-0.01) microsphere containing theophylline was investigated as a means of controlling drug release. Microspheres of CAB-551-0.01 of different polymer solution concentrations/viscosities were prepared (preparations Z(0), Z(A), Z(B) and Z(C)) and evaluated and compared to microspheres of a constant concentration of CAB-551-0.01 containing different amounts of Eudragit S100 powder as a filler (preparations X(A), X(B) and X(C)). The organic solvent acetonitrile used was capable of dissolving the matrix former CAB-551-0.01 only but not Eudragit S100 powder in the emulsion-solvent evaporation method. The CAB-551-0.01 concentration in Z(A), Z(B) and Z(C) was equal to the total polymer concentration (CAB-551-0.01 and Eudragit S100 powder) in X(A), X(B) and X(C), respectively. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to identify microspheres shape and morphology. In vitro dissolution studies were carried out on the microspheres at 37 degrees C (+/-0.5 degrees C) at two successive different pH media (1.2 +/- 0.2 for 2 h and 6.5 +/- 0.2 for 10 h). Z preparations exhibited low rates of drug release in the acidic and the slightly neutral media. On the other hand, X preparations showed an initial rapid release in the acidic medium followed by a decrease in the release rate at the early stage of dissolution in the slightly neutral pH which could be due to some relaxation and gelation of Eudragit S100 powder to form a gel network before it dissolves completely allowing the remained drug to be released.
,   In many countries newer non-benzodiazepines, zolpidem and zopiclone ("Z-drugs"), are prescribed instead of benzodiazepine hypnotics. This is not supported by current evidence and guidelines. The aim of this study was to compare the perceptions of GPs on the benefits and harms of benzodiazepines and Z-drugs.uestionnaire was mailed to a random sample of 1,350 German GPs between May and June 2012. GPs were asked to rate their perceptions on a five-point Likert scale for 12 items asked for both benzodiazepines and Z-drugs. Wilcoxon signed rank test for paired observations was used for comparison between groups. Due to multiple testing, only p values ≤0.01 were considered statistically significant.otal of 458 questionnaires were returned (response 33.9%). The mean age of participants was 53.3 years (59.4% males). GPs perceived that Z-drugs were significantly more effective in terms of reduced night-time waking, feelings of being rested on waking and improved daytime functioning than benzodiazepines (p <0.0001 for all comparisons), but not in terms of reduced time to get to sleep and increased total sleep time. All studied side effects were believed to be less often for patients receiving Z-drugs (p <0.0001 for all comparisons). A total of 73.4% and 80.4% answered that tolerance or withdrawal effects on stopping occur often or very often/always for benzodiazepines, whereas these values were only 30.6% and 28.7% for Z-drugs.man GPs perceived that Z-drugs were more effective and safer compared to benzodiazepines, which is not supported by current evidence. The results are quite comparable to a British survey conducted seven years before.
,   Replacement of the thiazolium ring of thiamine pyrophosphate with a triazole gives extremely potent inhibitors of pyruvate decarboxylase from Z. mobilis, with K(I) values down to 20 pM; this system was used to explore pyrophosphate mimics and several effective analogues were discovered.
,   Through an organometallic approach, ultrathin SnO(x)Fe(y)S(z) plates with ~2 nm single layer-thicknesses were obtained and their graphene composites showed very promising discharge capacities of up to 736 mA h g(-1) and excellent stabilities as anode materials in lithium ion batteries.
,   The title compound, C(18)H(27)NO(2), crystallizes as the enamine form with Z geometry. The β-enamino-ester fragment forms a dihedral angle of 87.5 (1)° with the isopropyl-phenyl frame. The structure exhibits an intra-molecular N-H⋯O hydrogen bond. In addition, in the crystal, mol-ecules are linked by a centrosymmetric inter-molecular N-H⋯O hydrogen bond.
,   The title compound, C(12)H(12)ClN(3)S, features a thia-zolyl ring having an envelope conformation with the -CH(2)- group bonded to the S atom forming the flap. The C=N double bond has a Z configuration. The crystal structure shows inter-molecular C-H⋯S hydrogen bonds.
,   The mechanisms of increased host resistance to tumors following treatment with Z-100, an arabinomannan extracted from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, were investigated in mice bearing syngeneic solid tumors. When BALB/c mice bearing Meth-A solid tumors were treated intralesionally (i.l.) with a 10 mg/kg dose of Z-100, 74% of tumor growth was inhibited in the test group as compared with control mice treated with saline. However, no significant tumor inhibitory activity was observed when these mice were treated with various doses of Z-100 i.p. or i.v. In addition, tumor growth in X-irradiated mice (450 R, whole-body irradiation) and in mice treated with antilymphocyte serum was not suppressed even though Z-100 was administered into the tumor. The number of lymphocytes isolated from Z-100-treated tumor tissues increased 3.2-fold (14 days after the tumor inoculation), whereas no change in the number of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes was demonstrated in mice treated with Z-100 i.p. or i.v. as compared to controls. When BALB/c mice were inoculated s.c. with a mixture of Meth-A tumor cells (1 x 10(6) cells) and lymphocytes (2 x 10(5) cells) derived from Z-100-treated tumor tissues in a Winn's neutralization test, decreased growth of solid tumors was demonstrated as compared with that of control mice inoculated with tumor cells alone. However, no such inhibition of tumor growth was observed in mice inoculated with a mixture of the tumor cells and lymphocytes obtained from tumor tissues of control mice at the same effector to target cell ratio.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   The objective of this study was to supply quantitative information about the facial soft-tissues of a group of subjects with Down syndrome. The three-dimensional coordinates of 28 soft-tissue facial landmarks were obtained by an electromechanic digitizer in 17 male and 11 female subjects with Down syndrome aged 12-45 years, and in 429 healthy individuals of the same age, ethnicity, and sex. From the landmarks, facial areas (eyes, ears, nose, and lips) and volumes (nose and lips) were calculated according to a geometrical model of face. Data were compared to those collected in the normal subjects by computing z-scores. Male and female z-scores were not significantly different. Most of the facial volumes were significantly (Student's t, P < 0.05) smaller in subjects with Down syndrome than in their normal controls. Ear areas were significantly reduced (mean z-scores in males -2.07 right, -1.9 left; in females -2.11 right, -2.21 left), as well as nasal surface area (mean z-score -1.53 in males, -2.45 in females). In women, age and some z-scores were significantly correlated (P < 0.05): upper lip volume (r = 0.714), left and right eye area (r = 0.635, right; 0.604, left), nasal area (r = 0.603): with increasing age, the negative values of the z-scores approached the 0 value of the reference population. In the pooled sample, age and the z-score of the total lip area were significantly correlated (r = 0.423): increasing age corresponded to a larger z-score value. The method allowed a simple, low cost, fast, and noninvasive examination of the subjects, and provided a quantitative assessment of the deviation from the norm.
,   On treating readily prepared benzyl 2,3,3-trifluoroacrylate with various Grignard reagents, e.g., aryl-, alkyl-, or alkenylmagnesium halide, in the presence of a catalytic amount of copper(I) salt in THF at -78 degrees C for 1 h, the corresponding alpha,beta-difluoroacrylates were obtained in 54-98% yields with high Z-selectivity.
,   Left handed Z-DNA has been demonstrated to be a stable new conformation which occurs at certain types of DNA sequences in recombinant plasmids. DNA supercoiling, as well as a number of environmental conditions, stabilizes this unusual conformation. The biological significance of left handed DNA will be discussed.
,   The isolation and characterization from Halichondria panicea of the long chain aldehyde (Z)-17-tetracosenal (1), one of the longest ever isolated from a marine sponge, is described. Structural assignment of the compound was confirmed by spectroscopy (1H-NMR and MS) as well as by selective ozonolysis.
,   Recent data have suggested that cardia biopsy specimens may be more reflective of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) than squamous biopsy specimens.assess the distribution, severity, and types of mucosal injury in GORD.rty patients with symptomatic GORD with no or minimal erosions.psies were performed at the squamocolumnar junction (Z-line) and 1-2 cm below the Z-line. Injury to the columnar mucosa was scored for inflammatory cells, epithelial cell abnormalities, and for the presence of intestinal metaplasia and Helicobacter pylori. A carditis score above 2 was considered positive (maximum score = 9).n carditis scores and percentages of patients with a positive carditis score were higher in Z-line biopsy specimens containing both squamous and columnar mucosa than in those with just columnar mucosa or in specimens taken 1-2 cm below the Z-line. Carditis at the Z-line was focal in 49% of the specimens and was always present adjacent to the squamous epithelium. Goblet cells were present more frequently in the specimens immediately at the Z-line than in those 1-2 cm below the Z-line. H pylori was present in only four patients. The mean carditis scores of specimens 1-2 cm below the Z-line in these patients was significantly higher than in those patients without H pylori.osal injury at the gastric cardia is highly localised to the region adjacent to the squamocolumnar junction in patients with GORD. Morphological studies of the cardia in GORD should focus on tissue samples that contain both squamous and columnar epithelium in order to obtain an accurate picture of the spectrum of injury.
,   Long double-stranded RNA may undergo hyper-editing by adenosine deaminases that act on RNA (ADARs), where up to 50% of adenosine residues may be converted to inosine. However, although numerous RNAs may undergo hyper-editing, the role for inosine-containing hyper-edited double-stranded RNA in cells is poorly understood. Nevertheless, editing plays a critical role in mammalian cells, as highlighted by the analysis of ADAR-null mutants. In particular, the long form of ADAR1 (ADAR1(p150)) is essential for viability. Moreover, a number of studies have implicated ADAR1(p150) in various stress pathways. We have previously shown that ADAR1(p150) localized to cytoplasmic stress granules in HeLa cells following either oxidative or interferon-induced stress. Here, we show that the Z-DNA-binding domain (Zα(ADAR1)) exclusively found in ADAR1(p150) is required for its localization to stress granules. Moreover, we show that fusion of Zα(ADAR1) to either green fluorescent protein (GFP) or polypyrimidine binding protein 4 (PTB4) also results in their localization to stress granules. We additionally show that the Zα domain from other Z-DNA-binding proteins (ZBP1, E3L) is likewise sufficient for localization to stress granules. Finally, we show that Z-RNA or Z-DNA binding is important for stress granule localization. We have thus identified a novel role for Z-DNA-binding domains in mammalian cells. 
,   Due to the high number of double bonds, ω-3-polyunsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic aid (EPA) or docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) are prone to rapid oxidation, leading to the formation of intense taints often described as "fishy". To clarify the compounds responsible for such off-flavors, EPA, DHA, and α-linolenic acid (ALA) were oxidized singly either in the presence of copper ions or in the presence of lipoxygenase. The autoxidation of EPA and DHA led to a mixture of odorants eliciting an overall fishy odor quality, whereas neither the oxidation of ALA by copper ions nor that by lipoxygenase led to an unpleasant odor. Application of aroma extract dilution analysis (AEDA) on the volatiles generated by autoxidation of EPA revealed trans-4,5-epoxy-(E,Z)-2,7-decadienal, identified for the first time as fatty acid degradation product, (Z)-1,5-octadien-3-one, (Z)-3-hexenal, (Z,Z)-2,5-octadienal, (Z,Z)-3,6-nonadienal, and (E,E,Z)-2,4,6-nonatrienal with the highest flavor dilution (FD) factors. The autoxidation as well as the enzymatic oxidation of all three acids led to the same odorants, but with different FD factors depending on the acid and/or the type of oxidation applied. Thus, the results suggested that a defined ratio of a few odorants is needed to generate a fishy off-flavor. 
,   Highly selective: the title reaction is achieved with high enantiomeric and geometric control and thermodynamically unstable (Z)-enone derivatives are obtained as the major products. The procedure tolerates a wide range of substrates to generate optically active pyrazolones with vinyl-substituted quaternary stereocenters.
,   [reaction: see text] The photoinduced metalation of nonactivated C-Cl bonds of O-acetyl chlorohydrins is promoted by samarium diiodide. As a result of this, beta-elimination of O-acetyl chlorohydrins is achieved, affording the corresponding (Z)-alkenes with total or high stereoselectivity.
,   To explore the secular trend in incidence and mortality rate of gastric cancer in Tianjin and to provide evidence and reference for making prevention and control strategy for gastric cancer.a derived from Tianjin cancer registry system were analyzed by descriptive epidemiological method and Joinpoint model. A total of 17990 gastric cancer cases reported in Tianjin from 1981 to 2002, including 12755 males and 5235 females were studied. annual percent change (APC) of crude incidence rate for males and females was -0.92% (Z = -3.85, P = 0.001) and -0.79% (Z = -2.67, P = 0.015), while the APC of standard incidence rate was -3.55% (Z = -13.52, P = 0.000) and -3.47% (Z = -12.85, P = 0.000). There was a descending trend of incidence rate in males and females above 45-years-old, however, in male under 45 years it showed an increased trend and in females it kept stable. The APC of crude mortality rate was -1.66% ( Z = -5.79, P = 0.000) for males and -1.84% (Z = -6.02,P = 0.000) for females, while the APC of standard mortality rate was -4.60% ( Z = -15.79, P = 0.000) for females and -5.36% ( Z = -8.28, P = 0.000) for males during 1989-2002. Mortality and incidence ratio also indicated a downward trend.pite its declining trend in Tianjin, gastric cancer still remains an important public health problem in facing of the aging society and many risk factors.
,   The regularity of the striation of skeletal muscle offers a unique possibility to analyze different bands of the sarcomere in longitudinally cut semithin cryosections. The aim of the present study was to investigate the elemental content of the Z-, I- and A-bands within the sarcomere which may be related to the affinity of an element to different contractile elements and the water content in different bands. The highest potassium levels were found in the Z-band (802 mmol/kg dry weight (d.w.)) as compared to the I-band (697 mmol/kg d.w.) and the A-band (731 mmol/kg d.w.). The difference between A-band and Z-band, but not between I-band and A-band, was significant. The highest phosphorus values were detected in the Z- and I- bands and the lowest within the A-bands (632, 615 and 540 mmol/kg d.w. respectively). No significant differences were found in the concentrations of Na, S, or Cl. Ca was significantly lower in the I-band as compared to A- and Z-band. The Mg concentration in the I- and A-band was significantly higher than in the Z-band. By means of computerized densitometry, relative densities (proportional to the dry mass content) of the Z-, I- and A-band were calculated (23.9, 11.6, and 19.2, respectively). The mean value of dry mass over several sarcomeres varied between 19.5-22.5 which corresponds well with dry weight mass concentrations obtained by traditional methods. The values for dry mass content allowed recalculation of the elemental concentrations as mmol/kg wet weight.
,   The structure of neihumicin, a new antibiotic isolated from the fermentation broth of Micromonospora neihuensis Wu, sp. nov., has been determined as (Z)-3,(Z)-6-dibenzylidene-2-methoxy-3,6-dihydropyrazin-5-one based upon spectral evidence and X-ray crystallographic analysis. Its total synthesis has also been achieved.
,   The title compound, C(17)H(15)NO, exists in a Z conformation. The dihedral angle between the O-bonded benzene ring and the vinyl plane is 80.97 (18)° while the dihedral angle between the rings is 80.06 (10)°. In the crystal structure, no classical hydrogen bonds occur.
,   The potential of both stereoisomers of 11 beta-methoxy-17 alpha-[123I] iodovinylestradiol (E- and Z-[123I]MIVE) as suitable radioligands for imaging of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive human breast tumours was studied. The 17 alpha-[123I]iodovinylestradiol derivatives were prepared stereospecifically by oxidative radioiododestannylation of the corresponding 17 alpha-tri-n-butylstannylvinylestradiol precursors. Both isomers of MIVE showed high in vitro affinity for dimethylbenzanthracene-induced rat and fresh human mammary tumour ER, that of Z-MIVE however being manyfold higher than that of E-MIVE. In vivo distribution studies with E- and Z-[123I]MIVE in normal and tumour-bearing female rats showed ER-mediated uptake and retention in uterus, ovaries, pituitary, hypothalamus and mammary tumours, again the highest for Z-[123I]MIVE. The uterus- and tumour-to-nontarget tissue (far, muscle) uptake ratios were also highest for Z-[123I]MIVE. Additionally, planar whole body imaging of two breast cancer patients 1-2 h after injection of Z-[123I]MIVE showed increased focal uptake at known tumour sites. Therefore, we conclude that Z-[123I]MIVE is a promising radioligand for the diagnostic imaging of ER in human breast cancer.
,   Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating neuroimmunological and neurodegenerative disorder. Despite substantial evidence for polygenic inheritance of the disease, the major histocompatibility complex is the only region that clearly and consistently demonstrates linkage and association in MS studies. The goal of this study was to identify additional chromosomal regions that harbor susceptibility genes for MS. With a panel of 390 microsatellite markers genotyped in 245 U.S. and French multiplex families (456 affected relative pairs), this is the largest genomic screen for MS conducted to date. Four regions met both of our primary criteria for further interest (heterogeneity LOD [HLOD] and Z scores >2.0): 1q (HLOD=2.17; Z=3.38), 6p (HLOD=4.21; Z=2.26), 9q (HLOD; Z=2.71), and 16p (HLOD=2.64; Z=2.05). Two additional regions met only the Z score criterion: 3q (Z=2.39) and 5q (Z=2.17). Further examination of the data by country (United States vs. France) identified one additional region demonstrating suggestive linkage in the U.S. subset (18p [HLOD=2.39]) and two additional regions generating suggestive linkage in the French subset (1p [HLOD=2.08] and 22q [HLOD=2.06]). Examination of the data by human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR2 stratification identified four additional regions demonstrating suggestive linkage: 2q (HLOD=3.09 in the U.S. DR2- families), 6q (HLOD=3.10 in the French DR2- families), 13q (HLOD=2.32 in all DR2+ families and HLOD=2.17 in the U.S. DR2+ families), and 16q (HLOD=2.32 in all DR2+ families and HLOD=2.13 in the U.S. DR2+ families). These data suggest several regions that warrant further investigation in the search for MS susceptibility genes.
,   In geriatric, depressed inpatients treated with nortriptyline (NT), total unconjugated plasma concentrations of the Z isomer of the 10-hydroxylated metabolite (10-OH-NT) were determined simultaneously with concentrations of the E isomer by high-performance liquid chromatography. Z-10-OH-NT concentrations averaged 14% of E-10-OH-NT concentrations.
,   In repair of macrostomia, many authors have used a Z-plasty to prevent postoperative scar contracture. We found that the Z-plasty scar may be conspicuous when the patients open their mouths. Here we present a method of nearly straight line closure resulting in an inconspicuous scar even when the patients move their mouths.
,   Six compounds were isolated from Radix Angelicae Sinensis and identified as (E)-ligustilide, (Z)-ligustilide, (Z)-n-butylidene phthalide, palmitic acid, beta-sitosterol and ferulic acid.
,   To investigate the characteristics of mass spectra of some drug metabolites, solutions of glucuronide conjugates of N-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-2-hydroxyl-benzamide (etofesalamide), 4-(3H-1, 2-dihydro-1-pyrrolizinone-2-methylamino)-benzoic acid, 5-hydroxypropafenone and propafenone were analyzed using electrospray ion trap mass spectrometry in a multi-stage full scan mode performed on a Finnigan LCQ instrument. Sample solutions were directly introduced into the ESI source at a flow rate of 15-30 microliters.min-1 by a syringe pump. The mass spectrometer was operated in the negative ion mode. A full scan mass spectra of each analyte provided quasimolecular ion m/z M-1, and full scan MS2 and MS3 spectra gave characteristic fragment ions m/z 175 and m/z 113, respectively, which were derived from the glucuronate moiety of each analyte. The proposed interpretation of m/z 175 is the negative ion of glucuronic acid with a loss of 18 u (H2O), which produces m/z 113 after further losing 18 u (H2O) and 44 u (CO2). Fragmentation pathway has been established for each analyte. The results show that quasimolecular ion m/z M-1 and the characteristic fragment ions m/z 175 and m/z 113 in the multi-stage full scan mass analysis of each analyte can be predicted for future structure elucidation or quantitative determination of glucuronide conjugates by LC/MS.
,   [reaction: see text] 1,6-Enynes reacted with monoynes to give cyclohexadiene derivatives in the presence of a catalytic amount of [Ir(cod)Cl](2)/ligand. DPPE was most suitable for cycloaddition. Diastereoselective cycloaddition was also possible. In the absence of monoynes, 1,6-enynes cycloisomerized to (Z)-1-alkylidene-2-methylenecyclopentane derivatives. DPPF was most suitable for cycloisomerization. These results are the first examples of highly Z-selective cycloisomerization.
,   This study compares the specific uptake and retention of the Z and E isomers of 17 alpha-iodovinyl-11 beta-methoxyestradiol (IVME2) in estrogen target tissues in immature female rats following intraperitoneal injection. Estrogen receptor binding studies in vitro showed that the Z-IVME2 had greater affinity than the E-IVME2, but our initial in vivo data, comparing 125I-labeled E- or Z-IVME2 in separate studies showed no difference between the two isomers in either uptake or retention. These results were confirmed when the two isomers, labeled either with 123I or 125I, were injected simultaneously, allowing direct comparison of uptake and retention patterns in the same animal. Analysis of the nature of the radioiodinated estrogens in estrogen target tissues showed that at all time points, the estrogen target tissues contained mainly the E isomer, even at short times after injection of Z isomer. Although the Z-IVME2 was reasonably stable in the injectant, analysis of a peritoneal lavage soon after intraperitoneal injection of Z-[125I]-IVME2 showed that mainly the E isomer was present, suggesting that the conversion occurred prior to uptake by the tissues. In vitro studies with intraperitoneal fluid and serum showed that denaturing by heating at 65 degrees C substantially reduced their ability to affect the conversion of Z to E isomer, suggesting a possible enzymatic conversion.
,   Iodide in copper's pathway: A new, efficient, and practical copper-catalyzed synthesis of Z-iodoenamides from readily available ketoximes has been developed (see scheme). The reaction was believed to proceed through a single-electron-transfer pathway. The corresponding Z-iodoenamides have been applied to the synthesis of substituted oxazoles, dienes, β-phenoxyl enamides, eneynes, β-acylenamides, and pyrroles (DCE = 1,2-dichloroethane).
,   The title mol-ecule, C(13)H(14)O(3), adopts a Z conformation about the C=C double bond. In the crystal, weak inter-molecular C-H⋯O hydrogen bonds with phenyl -CH atoms functioning as donors and the carbonyl O atom of an ester group as acceptor are observed.
,   Reversible piezochromic luminescence and aggregation induced emission properties of 4,4'-((Z,Z)-1,4-diphenylbuta-1,3-diene-1,4-diyl)dibenzoic acid are reported. The photoluminescent color of it changes from blue to yellow-green upon grinding, which can be restored upon exposure to a solvent. Intermolecular hydrogen bonding plays a key role in the altered emission. 
,   The ESR study of Cu(2+) doped calcium malonate dihydrate has been done at room temperature. Four magnetically in-equivalent sites for Cu(2+) have been observed. The spin-Hamiltonian parameters evaluated with the fitting of spectra to rhombic symmetry crystalline field are for Cu(2+) site (I): g(x)=2.0963+/-0.0002, g(y)=2.1316+/-0.0002, g(z)=2.4137+/-0.0002, A(x)=(32+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(y)=(34+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(z)=(49+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), for site (II): g(x)=2.0668+/-0.0002, g(y)=2.0800+/-0.0002, g(z)=2.3561+/-0.0002, A(x)=(34+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(y)=(36+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(z)=(51+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), for site (III): g(x)=2.0438+/-0.0002, g(y)=2.0623+/-0.0002, g(z)=2.2821+/-0.0002, A(x)=(34+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(y)=(36+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(z)=(53+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), and for site (IV): g(x)=2.0063+/-0.0002, g(y)=2.0241+/-0.0002, g(z)=2.2357+/-0.0002, A(x)=(35+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(y)=(37+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1), A(z)=(54+/-2)x10(-4)cm(-1). The ground state wave function of Cu(2+) has also been determined. The g-anisotropy has been estimated and compared with the experimental value. Further with the help of optical study the nature of bonding of metal ion with different ligands in the complex has been discussed.
,   The structures of o-chlorobenzonitrile, C7H4ClN, (I), and o-bromobenzonitrile, C7H4BrN, (II), have similar packing arrangements, even though Z' = 4 in (I) and Z' = 1 in (II). Both structures involve X...N interactions, as well as weak C-H...X and C-H...N hydrogen bonds. The four crystallographically independent molecules in (I) are related by pseudosymmetry.
,   Structural parameters, derived from X-ray crystallographic data, have been compiled for 35 derivatives of amino acids, peptides, and related compounds, which contain the N-terminal benzyloxycarbonyl (Z) group. The geometry of the urethane moiety of this end group is closely similar to that of the tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc) group, except for a relaxation of some bond angles because the Z group is sterically less crowded than the Boc group. For the same reason, the Z group has greater conformational flexibility. As a result, packing forces in the crystal may cause greater deformations of bond angles, resulting in larger variations of observed bond lengths and bond angles than in Boc-peptide crystals. The aromatic rings of the Z end groups tend to stack in crystals. Conformational energy calculations indicate that most conformations of Z-amino acid-N'-methylamides and of corresponding Boc derivatives have similar dihedral angles and relative energies, i.e. the nature of the N-terminal end group has little effect on the conformational preferences of the residue next to it. In particular, the computed fraction of molecules with a cis urethane (C-N) bond is similar for the two derivatives: 0.51 and 0.42 in Boc-Pro-NHCH3 and Z-Pro-NHCH3, respectively, and 0.02 in the two Ala derivatives. There exist several computed conformations of Z-Ala-NHCH3 and Z-Pro-NHCH3 in which the phenyl ring and the C-terminal methylamide group are close to each other. Because of favorable nonbonded interactions, such conformations are of low energy.
,   The mechanism for induction of tumors by estrogens is still unresolved. Neoplastic transformation of Syrian hamster embryo fibroblasts by diethylstilbestrol (DES) suggests that established principles of chemical carcinogenesis may be involved. The Syrian hamster embryo fibroblast cells provide a system in which now the question can be asked whether the metabolic activation of DES is a prerequisite for its biological activity in this system. In this study, Syrian hamster embryo fibroblast cell cultures were shown to oxidatively metabolize DES to cis,cisdienestrol (Z,Z-DIES) which is a DES metabolite commonly found in vivo. The only other metabolic conversion of DES detectable in these cell cultures was the formation of the glucuronides of DES and Z,Z-DIES. Z,Z-DIES is formed more efficiently in incubations with rapidly growing cells than in cultures approaching confluence. When arachidonic acid was added to the medium, Z,Z-DIES formation was enhanced, whereas indomethacin added to the cell cultures inhibited the formation of this metabolite. These data suggest the involvement of prostaglandin synthetase in the oxidative metabolism of DES by Syrian hamster embryo fibroblast cells in culture and suggest that cooxidation may play a role for its biotransformation in whole cells. Moreover, since many competing metabolic pathways are available to DES in vivo, this present study adds important additional support to the hypothesis that metabolism of DES via a peroxidative route plays a role in its carcinogenicity.
,   The first highly E- and enantioselective allylic alkylation of prochiral carbon nucleophiles with 1,2-disubstituted allylic carbonates is reported. The key to the successful development of this protocol is the ability of modular ion-paired chiral ligands to simultaneously control the E/Z selectivity and enantioselectivity. 
,   The orange fluorescing spot formed during the detection of halogenated hippuric acids with 4-N,N-Dimethylaminobenzaldehyde on TLC-plates consists of a E/Z-mixture of the corresponding benzyliden derivatives. Intermediates are the azlactones.
,   Regio- and stereoselective arylation of 2-alkenylpyridines with aryl bromides is catalyzed by specific Ru(II)-phosphine complexes affording beta-arylated (Z)-2-alkenylpyridines, in which the aryl moiety is introduced cis to the pyridyl group. This geometrical selectivity is in sharp contrast to the Mizoroki-Heck reaction. [reaction: see text]
,   Metabolic engineering of plant carotenoids in food crops has been a recent focus for improving human health. Pathway manipulation is predicated on comprehensive knowledge of this biosynthetic pathway, which has been extensively studied. However, there existed the possibility of an additional biosynthetic step thought to be dispensable because it could be compensated for by light. This step, mediated by a putative Z-ISO, was predicted to occur in the sequence of redox reactions that are coupled to an electron transport chain and convert the colorless 15-cis-phytoene to the red-colored all-trans-lycopene. The enigma of carotenogenesis in the absence of light (e.g. in endosperm, a target for improving nutritional content) argued for Z-ISO as a pathway requirement. Therefore, understanding of plant carotenoid biosynthesis was obviously incomplete. To prove the existence of Z-ISO, maize (Zea mays) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutants were isolated and the gene identified. Functional testing of the gene product in Escherichia coli showed isomerization of the 15-cis double bond in 9,15,9'-tri-cis-zeta-carotene, proving that Z-ISO encoded the missing step. Z-ISO was found to be important for both light-exposed and "dark" tissues. Comparative genomics illuminated the origin of Z-ISO found throughout higher and lower plants, algae, diatoms, and cyanobacteria. Z-ISO evolved from an ancestor related to the NnrU (for nitrite and nitric oxide reductase U) gene required for bacterial denitrification, a pathway that produces nitrogen oxides as alternate electron acceptors for anaerobic growth. Therefore, plant carotenogenesis evolved by recruitment of genes from noncarotenogenic bacteria.
,   The objective of this study is to assess patients' satisfaction with migraine treatment with frovatriptan (F) or zolmitriptan (Z), by preference questionnaire. 133 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS criteria) were randomized to F 2.5 mg or Z 2.5 mg. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with each of the two treatment periods lasting no more than 3 months. At the end of the study, patients were asked to assign preference to one of the treatments (primary endpoint). The number of pain-free (PF) and pain-relief (PR) episodes at 2 h, and number of recurrent and sustained pain-free (SPF) episodes within 48 h were the secondary study endpoints. Seventy-seven percent of patients expressed a preference. Average score of preference was 2.9 +/- 1.3 (F) versus 3.0 +/- 1.3 (Z; p = NS). Rate of PF episodes at 2 h was 26% with F and 31% with Z (p = NS). PR episodes at 2 h were 57% for F and 58% for Z (p = NS). Rate of recurrence was 21 (F) and 24% (Z; p = NS). Time to recurrence within 48 h was better for F especially between 4 and 16 h (p < 0.05). SPF episodes were 18 (F) versus 22% (Z; p = NS). Drug-related adverse events were significantly (p < 0.05) less under F (3 vs. 10). In conclusion, our study suggests that F has a similar efficacy of Z, with some advantage as regards tolerability and recurrence.
,   To examine the additive effect of the z-4 microsatellite polymorphism of aldose reductase gene (ALR2) and glycaemic control on risk of cataract in a prospective cohort of Chinese type 2 diabetic patients. (CA)n microsatellite polymorphism of ALR2 was determined using PCR followed by capillary gel electrophoresis. Cataract was defined by presence of lens opacity on direct ophthalmoscopy or history of cataract surgery. A non-linear curve approach was used to identify the threshold of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) at which the odds ratio (OR) for cataract started to increase. The association of z-4 allele with cataract, above and below this threshold, was assessed using multiple logistic regression analysis.the 5823 patients analyzed, 28.1% had cataracts. After adjusting for conventional risk factors and using non-z-4 carriers with HbA1c<8.0% as referent group (n = 3173), the OR (95% confidence intervals) for cataract was highest in z-4 carriers with HbA1c ≥ 8.0% [1.43 (1.05-1.96), n = 244], compared to non-z-4 carriers with HbA1c ≥ 8.0 [1.27 (1.10-1.47), n = 1836] and z-4 carriers with HbA1c<8.0%[1.01 (0.77-1.29), n = 420, P(trend) < 0.001]. This additive association remained significant after additional adjustments for drug use (P(trend) = 0.002) and renal function (P(trend) = 0.01).type 2 diabetic patients with suboptimal glycaemic control, the z-4 allele of ALR2 (CA)n polymorphism was independently associated with increased susceptibility to cataracts.
,   [5]- and [6]helicenes were synthesized in moderate to good yields from Z,Z-bis(bromostilbene)s by palladium-catalyzed double C-H arylation reaction. This method can be applied to the syntheses of helicenes possessing electron-deficient substituents.
,   The recent electronmicroscopic and biochemical mapping of Z-DNA sites in phi X174, SV40, pBR322 and PM2 DNAs has been used to determine two sets of criteria for identification of potential Z-DNA sequences in natural DNA genomes. The prediction of potential Z-DNA tracts and corresponding statistical analysis of their occurrence have been made on a sample of 14 DNA genomes. Alternating purine and pyrimidine tracts longer than 5 base pairs in length and their clusters (quasi alternating fragments) in the 14 genomes studied are under-represented compared to the expectation from corresponding random sequences. The fragments [d(G X C)]n and [d(C X G)]n (n greater than or equal to 3) in general do not occur in circular DNA genomes and are under-represented in the linear DNAs of phages lambda and T7, whereas in linear genomes of adenoviruses they are strongly over-represented. With minor exceptions, potential Z-DNA sites are also under-represented compared to random sequences. In the 14 genomes studied, predicted Z-DNA tracts occur in non-coding as well as in protein coding regions. The predicted Z-DNA sites in phi X174, SV40, pBR322 and PM2 correspond well with those mapped experimentally. A complete listing together with a compact graphical representation of alternating purine-pyrimidine fragments and their Z-forming potential are presented.
,   A case of septicemia caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup 29E (Z') in a patient with plasma cell leukemia is described. The patient developed disseminated intravascular coagulation, had a cardiopulmonary arrest, and died. The effects of altered immune function leading to a predisposition to meningococcal infections are discussed.
,   Various conformations of the DNA complementary helix are considered. Computer calculations of the conformational possibilities of the double helix are compared with the forms known from experiment. The frequences for fluctuational transitions from the B form into the forms of higher energy (A, Z) under physiological conditions are calculated on the basis of thermodynamical parameters for the B--A and B--Z shifts.
,   Extraction of the stem bark of KNEMA LAURINA Warb. and KNEMA TENUINERVIA W. J. J. O. de Wilde ssp. SETOSA de Wilde furnished 3-(12-phenyl-8 Z-dodecenyl)-phenol and 3-(8 Z-pentadecenyl)-phenol together with 8-hydroxy-6-methoxy-3- N-pentylisocoumarin, respectively. 2-Carboxy-3-(12-phenyldodecyl)-phenol) and 2,4-dihydroxy-6-(10-phenyldecyl)-acetophenone were common to both extracts.
,   An efficient approach for the synthesis of tetrasubstituted cyclopentadienes through Pd-catalyzed reactions of (Z)-2-en-4-yn acetates with substituted indoles was developed. This methodology has the advantages of broad scope, simple conditions and easily accessible starting materials.
,   A rapid and sensitive HPLC/MS/MS method was developed and validated for simultaneous determination of tinidazole, dyclonine and chlorhexidine, the three main components of a film-forming solution, in rat plasma. The plasma samples were pretreated by solid phase extraction (SPE) method. Separation was achieved on a Phenomenex Gemini C(18) column (50 mm × 2.0 mm, 5 μm) using an isocratic mobile phase system composed of methanol-ammonium formate (10 mM)-formic acid (56:44:0.2, v/v/v) (pH 3.5) at a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min. Analytes were determined by tandem mass spectrometry with electrospray positive ionization and multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The monitoring ions were (m/z) 247.4 → (m/z) 81.9 for tinidazole, (m/z) 290.1 → (m/z) 97.8 for dyclonine, (m/z) 505.0 → (m/z) 335.3 for chlorhexidine and (m/z) 282.1 → (m/z) 212.0 for phentolamine (internal standard). The calibration curves were linear in the range of 2-1000 ng/mL for the three components. The precision and accuracy of the method were well within the generally accepted criteria for biomedical analysis. It has been successfully applied to the pharmacokinetic research of a film-forming solution in rat.
,   A novel method for the selective synthesis of (Z)-1,5-dien-2-yl esters has been developed though Pt(II)-catalyzed tandem 1,2-acyl and 1,2-hydride migration, along with an allyl migration reaction of propargylic carboxylates with electronically unbiased internal alkynes. The unusual selectivity of 1,2-acyloxy migration was realized.
,   Metabolites of 5-amino-4-imidazolecarboxamide riboside (Z-riboside) have potential roles in the regulation of cellular metabolism and as pharmacological agents in several pathological situations. Before studying Z-riboside metabolism it was necessary to develop methods for identifying and quantitating 5(4)-amino-4(5)-imidazolecarboxamide metabolites. These studies utilized Chinese hamster ovary fibroblast auxotrophic mutants to identify and isolate compounds relevant to Z-riboside metabolism by a combination of high performance liquid chromatographic procedures. In order to study Z-riboside metabolism wild-type and mutant cells were cultured in Z-riboside. This ribosyl precursor to a purine de novo intermediate does not undergo any detectable phosphorolysis but rather is phosphorylated by adenosine kinase in an unregulated manner. This results in the intracellular accumulation of 5-amino-4-imidazolecarboxamide ribotide (ZMP), the levels of which control flow from Z-riboside to the following metabolites: 1) IMP and other purine nucleotides, 2) 5-amino-4-imidazole-N-succinocarboxamide ribotide (sZMP), and 3) 5-amino-4-imidazolecarboxamide riboside 5'-triphosphate (ZTP). At low ZMP concentrations, the predominant metabolic fate is IMP. Initially, IMP enters the adenylate and guanylate pools, but subsequently is hydrolyzed to inosine and this phosphorolyzed to hypoxanthine. At intermediate ZMP concentrations there is net retrograde flux through the bifunctional enzyme adenylosuccinate AMP lyase resulting in sZMP synthesis and antegrade flux leads to the accumulation of adenylosuccinate. At high ZMP concentrations, ZTP accumulates. In addition to these effects on purine metabolism, pyrimidine nucleotide pools are depleted when ZMP accumulates. These results are discussed in relation to the regulation of purine nucleotide synthesis and the use of Z-riboside as a pharmacological intervention in pathophysiological situations.
,   The stereochemistry of CO(2) addition to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to yield oxaloacetate catalyzed by ATP-dependent Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Anaerobiospirillum succiniciproducens PEP carboxykinases was determined using (Z)-3-fluorophosphoenolpyruvate ((Z)-F-PEP) as a substrate analog. A. succiniciproducens and S. cerevisiae PEP carboxykinases utilized (Z)-F-PEP with 1/14 and 1/47 the respective K(m) values for PEP. On the other hand, in the bacterial and yeast enzymes k(cat) was reduced to 1/67 and 1/48 the value with PEP, respectively. The binding affinity of pyridoxylphosphate-labeled S. cerevisiae and A. succiniciproducens PEP carboxykinases for PEP and (Z)-F-PEP was checked and found to be of similar magnitude for both substrates, suggesting that the lowered K(m) values for the fluorine-containing PEP analog are due to kinetic effects. The lowered k(cat) values when using (Z)-F-PEP as substrate suggest that the electron withdrawing effect of fluorine affects the nucleophilic attack of the double bond of (Z)-F-PEP to CO(2). For the stereochemical analyses, the carboxylation of (Z)-F-PEP was coupled to malate dehydrogenase to yield 3-fluoromalate, which was analyzed by (19)F NMR. The fluoromalate obtained was identified as (2R, 3R)-3-fluoromalate for both the A. succiniciproducens and S. cerevisiae PEP carboxykinases, thus indicating that CO(2) addition to (Z)-F-PEP, and hence PEP, takes place through the 2-si face of the double bond. These results, together with previously published data [Rose, I.A. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 244 (1969) 6130-6133; Hwang, S.H. and Nowak, T. Biochemistry 25 (1986) 5590-5595] indicate that PEP carboxykinases, no matter their nucleotide specificity, catalyze the carboxylation of PEP from the 2-si face of the double bond.
,   A synthon for a 14-electron Ir(III) species is described. The geometrical control exerted by the ligand system over the Ir-alkenyl intermediate in hydrosilylation of terminal alkynes precludes formation of the more thermodynamically stable β-(E)-vinylsilane, thus affording the β-(Z) isomer in excellent yields.
,   Variable temperature NMR and EPR spectroscopic studies provide rates and activation parameters for alkyne rotation and oscillation, respectively, in the fluxional redox pair [Mo(P(OMe)3)2(MeC identical to CMe)Cp][BF4] (diamagnetic) and [Mo(P(OMe)3)2(MeC identical to CMe)Cp] (paramagnetic).
,   Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms are associated with the deficit in executive functions. Playing Go involves many aspect of cognitive function and we hypothesized that it would be effective for children with ADHD.enteen drug naïve children with ADHD and seventeen age and sex matched comparison subjects were participated. Participants played Go under the instructor's education for 2 hours/day, 5 days/week. Before and at the end of Go period, clinical symptoms, cognitive functions, and brain EEG were assessed with Dupaul's ADHD scale (ARS), Child depression inventory (CDI), digit span, the Children's Color Trails Test (CCTT), and 8-channel QEEG system (LXE3208, Laxtha Inc., Daejeon, Korea).re were significant improvements of ARS total score (z=2.93, p<0.01) and inattentive score (z=2.94, p<0.01) in children with ADHD. However, there was no significant change in hyperactivity score (z=1.33, p=0.18). There were improvement of digit total score (z=2.60, p<0.01; z=2.06, p=0.03), digit forward score (z=2.21, p=0.02; z=2.02, p=0.04) in both ADHD and healthy comparisons. In addition, ADHD children showed decreased time of CCTT-2 (z=2.21, p=0.03). The change of theta/beta right of prefrontal cortex during 16 weeks was greater in children with ADHD than in healthy comparisons (F=4.45, p=0.04). The change of right theta/beta in prefrontal cortex has a positive correlation with ARS-inattention score in children with ADHD (r=0.44, p=0.03).suggest that playing Go would be effective for children with ADHD by activating hypoarousal prefrontal function and enhancing executive function.
,   Mid-upper-arm circumference (MUAC) is a simple method of assessing nutritional status in children above 6 months of age. In 2007 World Health Organization (WHO) introduced a MUAC z-score for children above 3 months of age. We evaluated whether MUAC or MUAC z-score had the best ability to identify children with high short-term mortality risk in Guinea-Bissau. Bandim Health Project visits children 3-monthly until 3 years of age. MUAC is measured and deaths are registered. We studied a high-mortality cohort of children born in 1995-96 and a lower mortality cohort of children born in 2005-06. The prognostic ability of MUAC and MUAC z-score to predict mortality within 1 and 3 months after the MUAC assessment were compared by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, sensitivity and positive predictive value.pared with MUAC z-score, MUAC identified as malnourished more girls than boys (prevalence ratio (PR)=1.74 (1.52;2.01)) and more children aged 6-11 months than children aged 12-35 months (1.59 (1.38;1.82)). There was no difference in the prognostic ability of MUAC and MUAC z-score to predict mortality for children aged 6-35 months. The prognostic ability was higher when mortality was lower. MUAC performed well in the youngest infants.the age group 6-35 months, MUAC and MUAC z-score had the same prognostic ability to predict short-term mortality. As MUAC is easier to use in field settings, there is no need to use MUAC z-score to identify children with a high-mortality risk.
,   Ab initio calculations have been performed on a series of complexes in which (HCNH)(+) is the proton donor and CNH, NCH, FH, ClH, and FCl (molecules X and Z) are the proton acceptors in binary complexes X:HCNH(+) and HCNH(+):Z, and ternary complexes X:HCNH(+):Z. These complexes are stabilized by C-H(+)···A and N-H(+)···A hydrogen bonds, where A is the electron-pair donor atom of molecules X and Z. Binding energies of the ternary complexes are less than the sum of the binding energies of the corresponding binary complexes. In general, as the binding energy of the binary complex increases, the diminutive cooperative effect increases. The structures of these complexes, data from the AIM analyses, and coupling constants (1)J(N-H), (1h)J(H-A), and (2h)J(N-A) for the N-H(+)···A hydrogen bonds, and (1)J(C-H), (1h)J(H-A), and (2h)J(C-A) for the C-H(+)···A hydrogen bonds provide convincing evidence of diminutive cooperative effects in these ternary complexes. In particular, the symmetric N···H(+)···N hydrogen bond in HCNH(+):NCH looses proton-shared character in the ternary complexes X:HCNH(+):NCH, while the proton-shared character of the C···H(+)···C hydrogen bond in HNC:HCNH(+) decreases in the ternary complexes HNC:HCNH(+):Z and eventually becomes a traditional hydrogen bond as the strength of the HCNH(+)···Z interaction increases.
,   Two-dimensional scalar-correlated (COSY) 1H-NMR spectra of the title compounds, and phase-sensitive COSY spectrum of lactosylceramide, have been fully assigned and some spectral reassignments for related structures suggested. Glycosylation-induced shifts, and shielding by Z- and E-ceramide residues are discussed.
,   The mol-ecule of the title compound, C11H13ClN2O3, is planar (r.m.s. deviation = 0.0587 Å for non-H atoms) and adopts a Z conformation about the C=N double bond. In the crystal, mol-ecules are linked via an N-H⋯O hydrogen bond, forming zigzag chains propagating along [010]. These chains are consolidated by C-H⋯O hydrogen bonds.
,   By screening (Z)-11-tetradecenal and (E)-11-tetradecenal alone, mixed with each other or mixed with corresponding alcohols or acetates, sex attractants were discovered or improved for nine Lepidoptera. Attractants were found forAcleris sparsana, A. tripunctana, Aphelia viburnana (all Tortricidae),Cilix glaucata (Drepanidae), andCosmia trapezina (Noctuidae). The significance of Δ11-tetradecenals in tortricid sex attractants is discussed. 
,   The extra sex combs (ESC) and Enhancer of zeste [E(Z)] proteins, members of the Polycomb group (PcG) of transcriptional repressors, interact directly and are coassociated in fly embryos. We report that these two proteins are components of a 600-kDa complex in embryos. Using gel filtration and affinity chromatography, we show that this complex is biochemically distinct from previously described complexes containing the PcG proteins Polyhomeotic, Polycomb, and Sex comb on midleg. In addition, we present evidence that ESC is phosphorylated in vivo and that this modified ESC is preferentially associated in the complex with E(Z). Modified ESC accumulates between 2 and 6 h of embryogenesis, which is the developmental time when esc function is first required. We find that mutations in E(z) reduce the ratio of modified to unmodified ESC in vivo. We have also generated germ line transformants that express ESC proteins bearing site-directed mutations that disrupt ESC-E(Z) binding in vitro. These mutant ESC proteins fail to provide esc function, show reduced levels of modification in vivo, and are still assembled into complexes. Taken together, these results suggest that ESC phosphorylation normally occurs after assembly into ESC-E(Z) complexes and that it contributes to the function or regulation of these complexes. We discuss how biochemically separable ESC-E(Z) and PC-PH complexes might work together to provide PcG repression.
,   This case study tested the threshold hypothesis (Rönnberg et al., 1998), which states that superior speechreading skill is possible only if high-order cognitive functions, such as capacious verbal working memory, enable efficient strategies.a case study, a speechreading expert (AA) was tested on a number of speechreading and cognitive tasks and compared with control groups (z scores). Sentence-based speechreading tests, a word-decoding test, and a phoneme identification task were used to assess speechreading skill at different analytical levels. The cognitive test battery used included tasks of working memory (e.g., reading span), inference-making, phonological processing (e.g., rhyme-judgment), and central-executive functions (verbal fluency, Stroop task).trary to previous cases of extreme speechreading skill, AA excels on both low-order (phoneme identification: z = +2.83) and high-order (sentence-based: z = +8.12 and word-decoding: z = +4.21) speechreading tasks. AA does not display superior verbal inference-making ability (sentence-completion task: z = -0.36). Neither does he possess a superior working memory (reading span: z = +0.80). However, AA outperforms the controls on two measures of executive retrieval functions, the semantic (z = +3.77) and phonological verbal fluency tasks (z = +3.55). performance profile is inconsistent with the threshold hypothesis. Extreme speechreading accuracy can be obtained in ways other than via well-developed high-order cognitive functions. It is suggested that AA's extreme speechreading skill, which capitalizes on low-order functions in combination with efficient central executive functions, is due to early onset of hearing impairment.
,   A simple and rapid liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the simultaneous determination of JBP485, Gly-Sar and JBP923 in the cell lysates using methanol as a deproteinization solvent was developed and validated. Detection was performed by turbo ionspray ionization in multiple reaction monitoring mode using the transitions of m/z 147.1 → m/z 90.1 for Gly-Sar, m/z 201.1 → m/z 86.1 for JBP485, m/z 219.1 → m/z 86.1 for JBP923 and m/z 152.0 → m/z 110.0 for paracetamol (internal standard). The analytes were separated on a Hypersil ODS C18 HPLC column using isocratic elution mode with a mobile phase containing 0.1% formic acid in water-methanol (97:3, v/v) at a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min. The calibration curves were demonstrated to be linear over the concentration range of 5.00-5000 nm with coefficient of 0.9968 for Gly-Sar, 0.9975 for JBP485 and 0.9952 for JBP923. The intra- and inter-day precisions were <10.2% for each quality contro; level, and the accuracy was within ±5.6% for each analyte. The matrix effect, the extraction recovery and stabilities of LC-MS/MS analysis were also investigated. This validated method was successfully applied to the simultaneous determination of JBP485, Gly-Sar and JBP923 in the cell lysates for identification of stably transfected HeLa cells with human PEPT1.
,   2-Vinyl-substituted phenol and an alpha-bromoester undergo a tandem esterification-alkylation reaction in the presence of a Cu-amine catalyst system to produce benzene-fused lactone. Z-Alkylated styrene is obtained after hydrolysis of the lactone with perfect selectivity. The simple protocol developed in this work opens a new avenue in the multi-substitution chemistry of alkenes. 
,   High-angle annular dark-field or Z-contrast microscopy was used to demonstrate that well dispersed metal supported catalysts consist of nanometer sized clusters. Depending upon the impregnated metal, different cluster sizes were observed. Grouping of Pd clusters could also be confirmed by analytical electron microscopy.
,   A fourteen-membered lactone, (R)-(Z,E)-9,11-octadecadien-13-olide, was isolated from extruded abdominal glands of a Neotropical, nymphalid butterfly. Heliconius pachinus (Lepidoptera). This compound was obtained from mature adults of both sexes, but was not detected in young adults or pupae.
,   A microwave-assisted HWE olefination process of readily accessible aryl-alkyl ketones has been developed to provide a rapid access to (Z)-3,3-trisubstituted-alpha,beta-unsaturated methyl esters, key building blocks for the synthesis of biologically active compounds.
,   To assess the pattern of nutritional recovery in malnourished children. This prospective analysis was conducted between September 1995 and November 1996 at the Center for Recovery and Nutrition Education (CREN) in São Paulo, Brazil. Of the thirty-eight children studied, 47.4% were infants (nine girls and nine boys) and 52.6% preschool children (twelve boys and eight girls).rty eight children were studied by velocity of W/A and H/A gain in standard deviation or Z score, according to weight and height median of NCHS.re was a statistically significant increase in the weight-for-age (W/A)(p = 0.012), height-for-age (H/A) (p = 0.001) from the time of admission. The difference in the velocity of W/A gain between infants (0.299-Z/year) and preschool children (0.684-Z/year) with more than six months of treatment, was found to be statistically significant (p = 0.038). The difference in the velocity of H/A gain for infants (0.794-Z/year) and for preschool children (0.506-Z/year), was not statistically significant (p = 0.166). In regards to gender, there was not a statistically significant difference between boys and girls in the velocity of W/A gain (0.540 and 0.524-Z/year, respectively). The difference in velocity of H/A gain was statistically significant, 0.485-Z/year for boys and 0.856-Z/year for girls (p = 0.043).se findings show that there are differences in the nutritional recovery patterns between gender and age groups.
,   The functional roles subserved by G(alpha)z, a G protein alpha subunit found predominantly in neuronal tissues, have remained largely undefined. Here, we report that G(alpha)z coupled neurotransmitter receptors to N-type Ca2+ channels when transiently overexpressed in rat sympathetic neurons. The G(alpha)z-mediated inhibition was voltage dependent and PTX insensitive. Recovery from G(alpha)z-mediated inhibition was extremely slow but accelerated by coexpression with RGS proteins. G(alpha)z selectively interacted with a subset of receptors that ordinarily couple to N-type Ca2+ channels via PTX-sensitive Go/i proteins. In addition, G(alpha)z rescued the activation of heterologously expressed GIRK channels in PTX-treated neurons. These results suggest that G(alpha)z is capable of coupling receptors to ion channels and might underlie PTX-insensitive ion channel modulation observed in neurons under physiological and pathological conditions.
,   The diagnostic values of the following three spectral criteria for the configuration of N-acyl-alpha,beta-dehydro-alpha-amino acid esters were examined: (i) the proton at the beta-position at the double bond of a Z-isomer is shielded if compared with the respective E-isomer (delta(beta)Z < delta(beta)E); (ii) the proton at the nitrogen atom is shielded in a Z-isomer in comparison with the corresponding E-isomer (delta(NH)Z < delta(NH)E); and (iii) changing of the solvent from CDCl3 to deuterated trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) causes shielding of the H(beta) vinylic proton of an E-isomer or deshielding of the respective proton of the Z-isomer (delta(CDCl3)E > delta(TFA)E or delta(CDCl3)Z < delta(TFA)Z). The investigations were based on a set of 22 (Z)- and (E)-N-acyl-alpha,beta-dehydro-alpha-amino acid esters of diverse structures, with aliphatic, aromatic and heteroaromatic substituents at the vinylic beta-carbon; most of the examined compounds were hitherto unknown. The application of the substituent effect additivity rule given by Pascual et al. for olefinic protons leads to evidently erroneous configuration assignments of N-acyl-alpha,beta-dehydro-alpha-amino acid esters. The considered criteria were fulfilled for all the examined cases with one exception [the second criterion for the alpha-pivaloylamino-beta-(2-furyl)acrylates]. The comparison of changes in the chemical shifts of H(beta) vinylic protons in CDCl3 and deuterated TFA seems to be the most reliable and useful configuration criterion, as it can be used in the case of a single isomer.
,   We introduce a simple modification to the Z-scan technique that results in a sensitivity enhancement that permits measurement of nonlinearly induced wave-front distortion of =lambda/10(4). This sensitivity was achieved with 10-Hz repetition-rate pulsed laser sources. Sensitivity to nonlinear absorption is also enhanced by a factor of =3. This method permits characterization of nonlinear thin films without the need for waveguiding.
,   Only a few host cell proteins that associate with arenaviruses have been identified. To date, the arenavirus Z protein associates with the promyelocytic leukemia protein PML and the ribosomal P proteins. The majority of PML is present in nuclear bodies which are translocated to the cytoplasm by infection with the arenavirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). The Z protein is a small zinc-binding RING protein with an unknown function which is required for the viral life cycle. Here, we demonstrate an association between Z and the host cell translation factor, eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF-4E) in infected and transfected cells. Z's association with both ribosomal proteins and this translation factor led us to investigate whether Z could modulate host cell translation. In cell culture, Z selectively represses protein production in an eIF-4E-dependent manner. Specifically, we see reduction in cyclin D1 protein production with no effect on glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in cells transfected with Z. Previous reports indicate that cyclin D1 is sensitive to eIF-4E levels, whereas GAPDH is not. Consistent with this, we observe preferential downregulation of cyclin D1 during infection and no effect on GAPDH. Further, no changes in RNA levels were observed for cyclin D1 or GAPDH transcripts. The interaction between eIF-4E and Z may provide a mechanism for slower growth observed in infected cells and a viral strategy for establishing chronic infection.
,   We work on the development of transgenic sexing strains in the codling moth, Cydia pomonella (Tortricidae), which would enable to produce male-only progeny for the population control of this pest using sterile insect technique (SIT). To facilitate this research, we have developed a number of cytogenetic and molecular tools, including a physical map of the codling moth Z chromosome using BAC-FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization with bacterial artificial chromosome probes). However, chromosomal localization of unique, single-copy sequences such as a transgene cassette by conventional FISH remains challenging. In this study, we adapted a FISH protocol with tyramide signal amplification (TSA-FISH) for detection of single-copy genes in Lepidoptera. We tested the protocol with probes prepared from partial sequences of Z-linked genes in the codling moth.ng a modified TSA-FISH protocol we successfully mapped a partial sequence of the Acetylcholinesterase 1 (Ace-1) gene to the Z chromosome and confirmed thus its Z-linkage. A subsequent combination of BAC-FISH with BAC probes containing anticipated neighbouring Z-linked genes and TSA-FISH with the Ace-1 probe allowed the integration of Ace-1 in the physical map of the codling moth Z chromosome. We also developed a two-colour TSA-FISH protocol which enabled us simultaneous localization of two Z-linked genes, Ace-1 and Notch, to the expected regions of the Z chromosome.showed that TSA-FISH represents a reliable technique for physical mapping of genes on chromosomes of moths and butterflies. Our results suggest that this technique can be combined with BAC-FISH and in the future used for physical localization of transgene cassettes on chromosomes of transgenic lines in the codling moth or other lepidopteran species. Furthermore, the developed protocol for two-colour TSA-FISH might become a powerful tool for synteny mapping in non-model organisms.
,   The aim was to compare the repeatability, reproducibility and inherent precision of ultrasound pachymetry (USP), noncontact specular microscopy (SP-2000P) and the Confoscan 4 confocal microscope (z-ring CS4) in measuring endothelial cell density (ECD), coefficient of variation of cell size (CV), and central corneal thickness (CCT) in normal eyes.this prospective study, one eye was selected from each of 30 subjects for the measurements of ECD, CV and CCT, which were taken by two observers. Results were analyzed statistically by repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) for intra-observer repeatability, inter-observer reproducibility, unpaired t-test, paired t-test, and Bland-Altman analyses to determine limits of agreement (LOA) between the three instruments.n ECD, measured by SP-2000P and z-ring CS4, were 3115.50 ± 279.70 cells/mm(2) and 3167.50 ± 264.75 cells/mm(2), respectively (observer 1), and 3192.63 ± 249.42 cells/mm(2) (z-ring, observer 2). Mean CV measurements were 27.12 ± 2.51 and 27.10 ± 2.41 (SP-2000P and z-ring CS4, respectively; observer 1), and 27.17 ± 2.25 (z-ring, observer 2). Mean CCT values were 555.11 ± 35.83 μm (USP), 535.82 ± 41.10 μm (SP-2000P) and 552.57 ± 36.83 μm (z-ring CS4), and 554.97 ± 36.34 μm (z-ring CS4, observer 2). However, pairwise tests in all cases there was good repeatability and reproducibility as shown by inter-observer and intra-observer analysis of variance for each of the instruments. SP-2000P and the z-ring CS4 can be used interchangeably to measure ECD and CV. For CCT, the sample size was too small to test for differences of the CCT measurements between the three instruments.
,   The site of cell division in Escherichia coli is defined by formation of the Z ring between the two segregated daughter nucleoids. Positioning of the Z ring, composed of the highly conserved and tubulin-like FtsZ protein, appears to be negatively regulated by both the nucleoid and the oscillating MinCD inhibitor proteins. MukB protein is probably involved in nucleoid condensation, and in the absence of MukB, the negative effect of the nucleoid on Z rings appears to be partially suppressed. In this study, we examined the localization of Z rings in cells lacking both the Min system and MukB. In the Deltamin DeltamukB double null mutant, essentially all nucleoid-free zones, either at the cell poles or at non-polar sites between nucleoids, contained Z rings. However, a significant proportion of Z rings also formed on top of nucleoids. Interestingly, Z ring clusters often formed at gaps between nucleoids, and some of the rings within the clusters were clearly positioned on top of nucleoids. These results provide further evidence that the negative topological effect of nucleoids in cells lacking MukB is partially but not totally suppressed, and that the absence of the Min system allows more promiscuous Z ring formation.
,   Investigators have long puzzled over the observation that low-birthweight babies of smokers tend to fare better than low-birthweight babies of non-smokers. Similar observations have been made with regard to factors other than smoking status, including socio-economic status, race and parity. Use of standardised birthweights, or birthweight z-scores, has been proposed as an approach to resolve the crossing of the curves that is the hallmark of the so-called birthweight paradox. In this paper, we utilise directed acyclic graphs, analytical proofs and an extensive simulation study to consider the use of z-scores of birthweight and their effect on statistical analysis. We illustrate the causal questions implied by inclusion of birthweight in statistical models, and illustrate the utility of models that include birthweight or z-scores to address those questions. Both analytically and through a simulation study we show that neither birthweight nor z-score adjustment may be used for effect decomposition. The z-score approach yields an unbiased estimate of the total effect, even when collider-stratification would adversely impact estimates from birthweight-adjusted models; however, the total effect could have been estimated more directly with an unadjusted model. The use of z-scores does not add additional information beyond the use of unadjusted models. Thus, the ability of z-scores to successfully resolve the paradoxical crossing of mortality curves is due to an alteration in the causal parameter being estimated (total effect), rather than adjustment for confounding or effect decomposition or other factors.
,   The peculiar functional structure of the Z-line in the obliquely striated muscles of some feather stars is described. It is known that cross-striated muscles are characterized by linear and continuous Z-bands, and obliquely striated muscles by disconnected, obliquely aligned Z-elements. Owing to this discontinuous organization, the sarcomere can perform wide active lengthenings, shortenings, and even 'super-elongations' in the helical fibres. In contrast, the obliquely striated fibres of crinoids show markedly continuous and homogeneous oblique Z-lines; such a structure is not compatible with 'super-performances' like sliding and shearing of the sarcomere elements, but instead could allow functions comparable to those characteristic of a cross-striated muscle (quick, short movements, mechanically amplifiable by bone levers). This odd situation, only interpretable in terms of evolutionary constraint, could be considered opposite and symmetrical to that of cross-striated 'super-contracting' muscles, where the Z-line is exceptionally fragmented to allow the sarcomere to super-contract. The possible architecture of a significant parameter such as the Z-line, which determines muscle fibre potential capacities, is analysed in detail: through qualitative-quantitative evaluation of electron micrographs, supported by statistical analysis of the data; and by computer simulations. The data obtained suggest that the most realistic conformation of the whole Z-complex in these muscles consists of a multiple system of continuous, ribbon-like helical planes running in parallel along the fibre from end to end and regularly cutting it with a constant thickness. The proposed model seems morphologically compatible with the experimentally verified situations and functionally compatible with the mechanical requirements for a normal contraction and for a balanced distribution of the involved strengths.
,   Contractions induced by adenosine triphosphate, in myofibrils isolated from the barnacle, Balanus aquilia, were observed with a phase microscope. The formation of contraction bands was well under way before the A-band came into contact with the Z-membrane. This is in disagreement with the hypothesis that contraction bands are formed when the A-band pushes against the Z-membrane.
,   A series of 5-[(Z)-(4-(2-(E)-arylidene)hydrazonosulfonylbenzylidene)]-2, 4-imidazolidinediones 6a-h and 5-[(Z)-(4-(2-beta-D-glycopyranosyl) hydrazinosulfonylbenzylidene)]-2,4-imidazolidinediones 10a-j were synthesized via two different routes. The compounds did not display any antiviral and antitumoral activity.
,   N-terminal acetylation of the recombinant Z-domain protein depends on E. coli strains, expression vectors and amino acid residues near the N-terminus, and is enhanced by a high cellular level of RimJ.
,   Animal models that closely resemble human disease can present a challenge. Particularly so in alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (α(1)ATD), as the mouse alpha-1 antitrypsin (α(1)AT) cluster encodes five highly related genes compared with the one in humans. The mouse PI2 homologue is closest to the α(1)AT human gene. We have changed the equivalent mouse site that results in the Z variant in man (Glu342Lys) and made both the "M" and "Z" mouse PI2 α(1)AT proteins. We have tested the ability of a small-molecular-weight compound CG to alleviate polymerisation of these mouse α(1)AT proteins as it has been shown to reduce aggregates of Z α(1)AT in man. We found that (1) CG specifically reduces the formation of polymers of recombinant mouse "Z" protein but not "M" protein; (2) whereas there is significantly more α(1)AT secreted from Chinese Hamster Ovary cells transfected with the mouse "M" α(1)AT gene than with the "Z" (20.8 ± 3.9 and 6.7 ± 3.6, respectively; P < 0.005), CG increased the α(1)AT levels secreted from "Z" cells (21.2 ± 0.01) to that of "M" (20.2 ± 0.02). The data support the concept that the murine "Z" gene is a potential model for the study of α(1)ATD and that mice expressing this gene would be relevant for testing treatments in vivo.
,   The title compound, C(34)H(34)N(2), adopts a Z,E configuration with respect to the N=C-C=N backbone, with an N-C-C-N torsion angle of 41.1 (4)° The dihedral angle between the benzene rings in the 9,10-dihydro-phenanthrene moiety is 18.0 (1)°.
,   The crystal structure of the title compound, C(25)H(27)NO(4), shows the presence of a double bond with Z geometry which connects the quinuclidin-3-one ring and the trimeth-oxy-resveratrol moiety. The dihedral angle between the two benzene rings in the stilbene skeleton is 32.80 (8)°.
,   This study characterized the functional effects of a novel gastroprokinetic agent, N-[2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl]-2-[(2-hydroxy-4,5-dimethoxybenzoyl)amino]-1, 3-thiazole-4-carboxyamide monohydrochloride trihydrate (Z338), on the muscarinic M1, M2, and M3 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes using the two-electrode voltage clamp method. Z-338 did not produce by itself any currents in oocytes expressing muscarinic M1, M3 receptors or muscarinic M2 receptors/G protein-gated inward rectifying K+ channels (Kir3.1 channels). In oocytes expressing muscarinic M1 receptors, Z-338 inhibited the acetylcholine-induced Ca2+ -activated Cl- current with an IC50 of 1.8 microM. In oocytes expressing muscarinic M2 receptors/Kir3.1 channels, Z-338 inhibited the acetylcholine-induced K+ currents with an IC50 of 10.1 microM, whereas in oocytes expressing muscarinic M3 receptors, Z-338 did not inhibit the acetylcholine-induced Ca2+ -activated Cl- current in a concentration-dependent manner. These results indicate that Z-338 is a potent antagonist not for muscarinic M3 receptor but for both muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors. Thus, Z-338 is a gastrokinetic agent with a unique profile.
,   Tall fescue toxicosis and other maladies in livestock result from the ingestion of vasoconstrictive ergot alkaloids produced by fungal endophytes associated symbiotically with the grass. In order to facilitate future analyses of grass extracts considered responsible for outbreak of related livestock diseases, we examined the electrospray ionization mass spectra of specific ergot alkaloids under conditions that permit protonation. Our purposes were both to record the spectra with interpretation of mechanisms of fragmentation and to derive commonalities that would allow the prediction of mass spectra of related compounds for which standards were not readily available. With [M + H](+) values in parentheses, water-insoluble lysergic acid peptide ergot derivatives ergovaline (m/z 534), ergotamine (m/z 582), ergocornine (m/z 562), ergocryptine (m/z 576) and ergocrystine (m/z 610) exhibited a consistent loss of water (-18 u) from the C-12' alpha-hydroxy functionality. Of this group, ergovaline and ergotamine generated an m/z 320 fragment deriving from cleavage of ring E amide and ether functions with retention of the peptide ring system methyl group. Ergocornine, ergocryptine and ergocrystine similarly formed an m/z 348 fragment with retention of isopropyl. These assignments were supported by the lack of similar fragments from the water-soluble ergot ergonovine, which lacks a peptide ring system. Clavine-type ergot alkaloids lysergic acid and lysergol lack any substituents beyond simple ones directly on the C-8 position and, similarly to ergonovine, lack significant fragments at m/z 268, 251 and 225 shared by the peptide ergot alkaloids.
,   A 30-year-old woman with known pseudoxanthoma elasticum was referred for surgical correction of extensive loose neck skin. She underwent a standard rhytidectomy, which produced minimal improvement. Revision surgery using a vertical elliptical skin excision, incorporating a Z-plasty was undertaken 3 months later and resulted in a satisfactory outcome.
,   During our ongoing project on the biosynthesis of R-(+)-octane-1,3-diol the metabolism of linoleic acid was investigated in stored apples after injection of [1-14C]-, [9,10,12,13-3H]-,13C18- and unlabeled substrates. After different incubation periods the products were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (MS), high-performance liquid chromatography-MS/MS, and HPLC-radiodetection. Water-soluble compounds and CO2 were the major products whereas 13(R)-hydroxy- and 13-keto-9(Z),11(E)-octadecadienoic acid, 9(S)-hydroxy- and 9-keto-10(E),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid, and the stereoisomers of the 9,10,13- and 9,12,13-trihydroxyoctadecenoic acids were identified as the major metabolites found in the diethyl ether extracts. Hydroperoxides were not detected. The ratio of 9/13-hydroxy- and 9/13-keto-octadecadienoic acid was 1:4 and 1:10, respectively. Chiral phase HPLC of the methyl ester derivatives showed enantiomeric excesses of 75% (R) and 65% (S) for 13-hydroxy-9(Z),11(E)-octadecadienoic acid and 9-hydroxy-10(E),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid, respectively. Enzymatically active homogenates from apples were able to convert unlabeled linoleic acid into the metabolites. Radiotracer experiments showed that the transformation products of linoleic acid were converted into (R)-octane-1,3-diol. 13(R)-Hydroxy-9(Z),11(E)-octadecadienoic acid is probably formed in stored apples from 13-hydroperoxy-9(Z),11(E)-octadecadienoic acid. It is possible that the S-enantiomer of the hydroperoxide is primarily degraded by enzymatic side reactions, resulting in an enrichment of the R-enantiomer and thus leading to the formation of 13(R)-hydroxy-9(Z),11(E)-octadecadienoic acid.
,   Reduced bone mineral density (BMD) has been reported in adults with Crohn's disease (CD). Less is known about abnormal BMD in children and young adults with CD. The aims of this study are to determine the prevalence of low BMD and to evaluate the effect of growth and pubertal development on BMD in children and young adults with CD. One hundred-nineteen patients with CD underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to determine BMD. Anthropometry and pubertal development were measured. Bone age was measured only in patients older than 8 years of age and who had not grown in height during the last year. One hundred-nineteen patients (72 male, 47 female) were evaluated. Seventy percent of patients had BMD z-scores < or = -1.0 and 32% had z-scores < or = -2.0. Weight and height z-scores were significantly associated with BMD z-scores. BMD z-scores based on bone age and on chronological age were highly correlated, except when the chronological age BMD z-score was < or = -2.0. BMD z-score was significantly different between males and females for the group (-1.75 +/- 1.06 vs. -1.08 +/- 1.00), respectively. Children and young adults with CD have a high prevalence of low BMD and routine evaluation by DXA is indicated. In patients with a chronological age-based BMD z-score < or = -2.0, a bone age-based BMD should be considered.
,   An all-solid-state Z-scheme system array consisting of an Fe2V4O13 nanoribbon (NR)/reduced graphene oxide (RGO)/CdS nanoparticle grown on the stainless-steel mesh was rationally designed for photoconversion of gaseous CO2 into renewable hydrocarbon fuels (methane: CH4). 
,   Southern bean mosaic virus swells upon removal of Ca2+ at pH 8.25. Virions do not seem to aggregate significantly; the z-average hydrodynamic diameter increases from 29.9 nm to 44.0 nm. Swelling is virtually complete within 3 min, and swollen virions have a z-average hydrodynamic diameter similar to that of virions swollen by dialysis overnight.
,   The cobalt-catalyzed selective isomerization of terminal alkenes to the thermodynamically less-stable (Z)-2-alkenes at ambient temperatures takes place by a new mechanism involving the transfer of a hydrogen atom from a Ph2PH ligand to the starting material and the formation of a phosphenium complex, which recycles the Ph2PH complex through a 1,2-H shift.
,   Primary amine hydrochlorides promote a well-controlled ring-opening polymerisation of Z-L-lysine-N-carboxyanhydride in DMF at 40-80 degrees C; the polystyrene-poly(Z-L-lysine) block copolymers synthesised exhibit a very narrow molecular weight distribution, close to a Poisson distribution.
,   Let f be a transcendental meromorphic function of order less than one. The authors prove that the exact difference Δf =(z+1)-f(z) has infinitely many fixed points, if a ∈ ℂ and ∞ are Borel exceptional values (or Nevanlinna deficiency values) of f. These results extend the related results obtained by Chen and Shon.
,   Facial clefts are extremely rare congenital deformities and there are only a few technique reports for surgical reconstruction of clefts in the literature. In this article, we report a Tessier no. 3 incomplete cleft reconstruction with alar transposition and irregular Z-plasty in a 2-year old female patient.
,   The first Cu/Pd-catalyzed decarboxylative cross-coupling of 3,3-diarylacrylic acids with aryl bromides is described. Triarylethylenes were obtained in high yields with excellent stereoselectivities. This methodology was successfully applied to the stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-tamoxifen. 
,   Diol synthase from Aspergillus nidulans was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Recombinant E. coli cells expressing diol synthase from A. nidulans converted linoleic acid to a product that was identified as 5,8-dihydroxy-9,12(Z,Z)-octadecadienoic acid by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The recombinant cells and the purified enzyme showed the highest activity for linoleic acid among the fatty acids tested. The optimal reaction conditions for the production of 5,8-dihydroxy-9,12(Z,Z)-octadecadienoic acid from linoleic acid using whole recombinant E. coli cells expressing diol synthase were pH 7.5, 35°C, 250 rpm, 5 g l(-1) linoleic acid, 23 g l(-1) cells, and 20% (v/v) dimethyl sulfoxide in a 250-ml baffled flask. Under these optimized conditions, whole recombinant cells expressing diol synthase produced 4.98 g l(-1) 5,8-dihydroxy-9,12(Z,Z)-octadecadienoic acid for 150 min without detectable byproducts, with a conversion yield of 99% (w/w) and a productivity of 2.5 g l(-1) h(-1). This is the first report on the biotechnological production of dihydroxy fatty acid using whole recombinant cells expressing diol synthase.
,   In pediatric echocardiography, cardiac dimensions are often normalized for weight, height, or body surface area (BSA). The combined influence of height and weight on cardiac size is complex and likely varies with age. We hypothesized that increasing weight for height, as represented by body mass index (BMI) adjusted for age, is poorly accounted for in Z scores normalized for weight, height, or BSA. We aimed to evaluate whether a bias related to BMI was introduced when proximal aorta diameter Z scores are derived from bivariate models (only one normalizing variable), and whether such a bias was reduced when multivariable models are used. We analyzed 1,422 echocardiograms read as normal in children ≤18 years. We computed Z scores of the proximal aorta using allometric, polynomial, and multivariable models with four body size variables. We then assessed the level of residual association of Z scores and BMI adjusted for age and sex. In children ≥6 years, we found a significant residual linear association with BMI-for-age and Z scores for most regression models. Only a multivariable model including weight and height as independent predictors produced a Z score free of linear association with BMI. We concluded that a bias related to BMI was present in Z scores of proximal aorta diameter when normalization was done using bivariate models, regardless of the regression model or the normalizing variable. The use of multivariable models with weight and height as independent predictors should be explored to reduce this potential pitfall when pediatric echocardiography reference values are evaluated. 
,   The NK1 and NK2 receptor activity of a series of 5-[(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)methoxy]-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-4(Z)-(methoxyimino)pentyl-1-piperidines was evaluated. Compounds 11d, 11e, 11f, 12a, and 12k were found to be our most potent inhibitors.
,   To improve the image contrast-to-noise (CNR) ratio for low-Z target megavoltage cone-beam CT (MV CBCT) using a statistical projection noise suppression algorithm based on the penalized weighted least-squares (PWLS) criterion.jection images of a contrast phantom, a CatPhan(®) 600 phantom and a head phantom were acquired by a Varian 2100EX LINAC with a low-Z (Al) target and low energy x-ray beam (2.5 MeV) at a low-dose level and at a high-dose level. The projections were then processed by minimizing the PWLS objective function. The weighted least square (WLS) term models the noise of measured projection and the penalty term enforces the smoothing constraints of the projection image. The variance of projection data was chosen as the weight for the PWLS objective function and it determined the contribution of each measurement. An anisotropic quadratic form penalty that incorporates the gradient information of projection image was used to preserve edges during noise reduction. Low-Z target MV CBCT images were reconstructed by the FDK algorithm after each projection was processed by the PWLS smoothing.se in low-Z target MV CBCT images were greatly suppressed after the PWLS projection smoothing, without noticeable sacrifice of the spatial resolution. Depending on the choice of smoothing parameter, the CNR of selected regions of interest in the PWLS processed low-dose low-Z target MV CBCT image can be higher than the corresponding high-dose image. CNR of low-Z target MV CBCT images was substantially improved by using PWLS projection smoothing. The PWLS projection smoothing algorithm allows the reconstruction of high contrast low-Z target MV CBCT image with a total dose of as low as 2.3 cGy.
,   G(z) is a member of the G(i) G protein family associated with dopamine D2-like receptors; however, its functions remain relatively unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle, locomotor hyperactivity and dopamine D2 receptor binding in mice deficient in the alpha subunit of G(z).used automated startle boxes to assess startle and PPI after treatment with saline, amphetamine, apomorphine or MK-801. We used photocell cages to quantitate locomotor activity after amphetamine treatment. Dopamine D2 receptor density was determined by autoradiography.rtle responses and baseline PPI were not different between the Galpha(z) knockout mice and wild-type controls (average PPI 46+/-4 vs 49+/-3%, respectively). Amphetamine treatment caused a marked disruption of PPI in Galpha(z) knockouts (average PPI 22+/-2%), but less so in controls (average PPI 42+/-3%). Similar genotype-dependent responses were seen after apomorphine treatment (average PPI 23+/-3% vs 40+/-3%), but not after MK-801 treatment (average PPI 29+/-5 vs 33+/-2%). Amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity was greater in Galpha(z) knockouts than in controls. There was no difference in the density of dopamine D2 receptors in nucleus accumbens.e deficient in the alpha subunit of G(z) show enhanced sensitivity to the disruption of PPI and locomotor hyperactivity caused by dopaminergic stimulation. These results suggest a possible role for G(z) in neuropsychiatric illnesses with presumed dopaminergic hyperactivity, such as schizophrenia.
,   First-principles calculations are carried out on models for the Z(1)/Z(2) defects in 4H-SiC which are found in as-grown and irradiated n-type material. We show that an interstitial-nitrogen-interstitial-carbon defect is exceptionally thermally stable, bistable, and has negative-U character with donor and acceptor levels close to those attributed to the defect.
,   Recently an (A-C)n dinucleotide repeat polymorphic marker in the 5'-region of the ALR2 gene encoding aldose reductase was found to be associated with diabetic retinopathy in the Chinese population in Hong Kong, and with nephropathy and neuropathy in the British Caucasian population. The present study assessed the association between the polymorphism and microvascular complications in Japanese patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus. from 87 Japanese patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus and 90 control subjects with normal glucose tolerance were typed for the polymorphic marker by polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing. alleles, namely Z-12, Z-6, Z-4, Z-2, Z, and Z+2 were identified. There was no significant difference in allele distribution between diabetic patients and controls. The Z-2 allele frequency was significantly higher in subjects with diabetic retinopathy than those without retinopathy (0.35 vs. 0.20, P=0.039), suggesting that aldose reductase is involved in the development of diabetic retinopathy. In contrast, the microsatellite marker was not associated with diabetic nephropathy, peripheral or autonomic neuropathy. The discrepancy may be partly attributable to the low frequency of Z+2 allele in the Japanese subjects. (A-C)n dinucleotide repeat polymorphism may be a useful genetic marker to screen for patients at high risk of retinopathy.
,   A 3.19-Mbp draft genome of the Gram-positive thermophilic iron-reducing Firmicutes isolate from the Peptococcaceae family, Thermincola ferriacetica Z-0001, was assembled at ~100× coverage from 100-bp paired-end Illumina reads. The draft genome contains 3,274 predicted genes (3,187 protein coding genes) and putative multiheme c-type cytochromes. 
,   A new strategy for Rh(I)-catalyzed [2+2+2] cycloadditions of 1,6-diynes with potassium (Z)-(2-bromovinyl)trifluoroborate as the third two-atom unit has been realized, which provides a facile entry to polysubstituented benzene derivatives.
,   The transfer and dynamic fixation of chirality in cyclic azobenzenes using R-(+)-1-phenylethylalcohol (R-PEA) and S-(-)-1-phenylethylalcohol (S-PEA) as solvents or additives are investigated. The cyclic azobenzenes used in this study carry a 1,5-dioxynaphthalene moiety as rotating unit, connected to the photoisomerizing (E-Z) azobenzene unit with spacers of varying lengths. With suitable lengths of the spacers the molecules exhibit stable enantiomers originated from the element of planar chirality in the E form due to the stopped rotation of the rotor, while in the Z form the allowed rotation results in racemization. The CD spectra of racemic compounds in the E form in chiral solvents were inert or almost negligible before irradiation, while 366 nm irradiation causing E-Z photoisomerization resulted in induction of clear CD bands. The thermal or photochemical reverse Z-E isomerization causes a change in the CD spectra to new ones which are reasonably matching with the spectra of the pure enantiomers recorded in non-chiral solvents. The obtained new CD spectra are maintained even in a racemic solvent system attained by the dilution with an equal amount of chiral solvent of opposite stereostructure. These results indicate that the chirality is transferred from the chiral solvents or additives to the racemizing Z form of cyclic azobenzene and it is fixed in the non-racemizing E form. The molecule without racemization in both E and Z forms did not show any significant induced CD bands irrespective of E-Z isomerizations. The molecule showing racemization in E and Z forms just shows the non-fixed induced CD. The property of photo-switchable racemization is necessary for the effective transfer and temporal fixation of the chirality in this type of chirality sensors.
,   Nitrite anions are formed in the human body and in the natural environment as intermediate chemical compounds during the reduction of nitrate, a ubiquitous anthropogenic contaminant introduced into the environment primarily through fertilizer use. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) in ion chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (IC-ESI-MS/MS) is a promising new technique for quantifying and confirming the identity of anions in complex aqueous mixtures. In this article, we present the results of a short investigation devised to: (1) compare the signal generated by the MRM transitions for nitrite with those for nitrate, (2) isolate the source of the signal from these MRM transitions occurring within the IC-ESI-MS/MS instrument and (3) assess the relationship between the observed MRM signals for nitrite. The MRM transitions used in this study were m/z 62 (NO(3)(-))→m/z 46 (NO(2)(-)) and m/z 46 (NO(2)(-))→m/z 46 (NO(2)(-)). Results of the investigation revealed the association of both MRM transitions with the nitrite chromatographic peak, indicating the occurrence of nitrite oxidation to nitrate at the ESI interface before the first quadrupole. Calibrations for both MRM signals, as well as their sum, were found to be linear. However, the ratio of m/z 62→m/z 46 to m/z 46→m/z 46 (indicating an extent of oxidation) ranged from 35 to 56% over a nitrite concentration range of 10 to 100 ppm, showing no clear trend associated with concentration.
,   We show that chloroacetaldehyde, a chemical compound known to be reactive with unpaired adenine and cytosine residues, reacts with adenine residues (syn conformation) but not with cytosine residues (anti conformation) within Z-DNA. These modified residues are sensitive to cleavage by piperidine, which allows mapping at the single nucleotide level.
,   CapZ is a widely distributed and highly conserved, heterodimeric protein, that nucleates actin polymerization and binds to the barbed ends of actin filaments, preventing the addition or loss of actin monomers. CapZ interaction with actin filaments was shown to be of high affinity and decreased in the presence of PIP2. CapZ was located in nascent Z-lines during skeletal muscle myofibrillogenesis before the striated appearance of thin filaments in sarcomers. In this study, the stabilization and the anchorage of thin filaments were explored through identification of CapZ partners in the Z-line. Fish (sea bass) striated white muscle and its related Z-line proteins were selected since they correspond to the simplest Z-line organization. We report here the interaction between purified CapZ and alpha-actinin, a major component of Z filaments and polar links in Z-discs. Affinity of CapZ for alpha-actinin, estimated by fluorescence and immunochemical assays, is in the microM range. This association was found to be independent of actin and shown to be weakened in the presence of phosphoinositides. Binding contacts on the alpha-actinin molecule lie in the 55 kDa repetitive domain. A model including CapZ/alpha-actinin/titin/actin interactions is proposed considering Luther's 3D Z-line reconstruction.
,   Methods for the highly stereoselective and regiodivergent hydrosilylation of 1,3-disubstituted allenes have been developed. The synthesis of E allylsilanes is accomplished with palladium NHC catalysts, and trisubstituted Z alkenylsilanes are accessed with nickel NHC catalysts. Unsymmetrically substituted allenes are well tolerated with nickel catalysis and afford Z alkenylsilanes. Evidence for a plausible mechanism was obtained through an isotopic double-labeling crossover study. 
,   Density functional theory calculations of the (51)V hyperfine coupling (HFC) tensor A, have been completed for eighteen V(IV)O(2+) complexes with different donor set, electric charge and coordination geometry. A tensor was calculated with ORCA software with several functionals and basis sets taking into account the spin-orbit coupling contribution. The results were compared with those obtained with Gaussian 03 software using the half-and-half functional BHandHLYP and 6-311g(d,p) basis set. The order of accuracy of the functionals in the prediction of A(iso), A(z) and dipolar term A(z,anis) is BHandHLYP > PBE0 >> B3PW > TPSSh >> B3LYP >> BP86 > VWN5 (for A(iso)), BHandHLYP > PBE0 >> B3PW > TPSSh > B3LYP >> BP86 > VWN5 (for A(z)), B3LYP > PBE0 ∼ B3PW ∼ BHandHLYP >> TPSSh > BP86 ∼ VWN5 (for A(z,anis)). The good agreement in the prediction of A(z) with BHandHLYP is due to a compensation between the overestimation of A(iso) and underestimation of A(z,anis) (A(z) = A(iso) + A(z,anis)), whereas among the hybrid functionals PBE0 performs better than the other ones. BHandHLYP functional and Gaussian software are recommended when the V(IV)O(2+) species contains only V-O and/or V-N bonds, whereas PBE0 functional and ORCA software for V(IV)O(2+) complexes with one or more V-S bonds. Finally, the application of these methods to the coordination environment of V(IV)O(2+) ion in V-proteins, like vanadyl-substituted insulin, carbonic anhydrase, collagen and S-adenosylmethionine synthetase, was discussed.
,   3-(Methoxycarbonyl)-2-halo-1,3(Z)-dienes were prepared highly stereoselectively via SN2'-type addition-elimination reactions of 3-(methoxycarbonyl)-1,2-allen-4-ols with MX. These products may easily undergo Negishi or Sonogashira coupling reactions to yield a series of stereodefined polysubstituted (E)-1,3-dienes.
,   An NZM2410-derived lupus susceptibility locus on murine chromosome 4, Sle2(z), has previously been noted to engender generalized B cell hyperactivity. To study how Sle2(z) impacts B cell tolerance, two Ig H chain site-directed transgenes, 3H9 and 56R, with specificity for DNA were backcrossed onto the C57BL/6 background with or without Sle2(z). Interestingly, the presence of the NZM2410 "z" allele of Sle2 on the C57BL/6 background profoundly breached B cell tolerance to DNA, apparently by thwarting receptor editing. Whereas mAbs isolated from the spleens of B6.56R control mice demonstrated significant usage of the endogenous (i.e., nontargeted) H chain locus and evidence of vigorous L chain editing; Abs isolated from B6.Sle2(z).56R spleens were largely composed of the transgenic H chain paired with a spectrum of L chains, predominantly recombined to J(k)1 or J(k)2. In addition, Sle2(z)-bearing B cells adopted divergent phenotypes depending on their Ag specificity. Whereas Sle2(z)-bearing anti-DNA transgenic B cells were skewed toward marginal zone B cells and preplasmablasts, B cells from the same mice that did not express the transgene were skewed toward the B1a phenotype. This work illustrates that genetic loci that confer lupus susceptibility may influence B cell differentiation depending on their Ag specificity and potentially contribute to antinuclear autoantibody formation by infringing upon B cell receptor editing. Taken together with a recent report on Sle1(z), these studies suggest that dysregulated receptor-editing of nuclear Ag-reactive B cells may be a major mechanism through which antinuclear Abs arise in lupus.
,   Three new polyhydroxylated phragmalins, named xyloccensins Y, Z(1), and Z(2) (1-3), were isolated from the fruit of a Chinese mangrove, Xylocarpus granatum, together with eight known compounds. The structures of these compounds were established on the basis of spectroscopic data and chemical methods.
,   Mammalian cell lipid analyses using tandem electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, in conjunction with stable isotope labeling, permit unparalleled access to membrane phospholipid molecular species compositions and turnover. Lipidomic data from isolable compartments of lipid second messenger generation, such as membrane-free nuclei, can provide dynamic insights into the topology of phospholipid turnover. For example, ESI-MS/MS precursor scans of characteristic phosphocholine m/z 184(+) fragments reveal a highly saturated endonuclear phosphatidylcholine pool with homeostatic maintenance properties. A spatially distinct CDPcholine pathway yields, within minutes of choline-d(9) labeling, unsaturated endonuclear phosphatidylcholines progressively remodeled to more saturated species evidenced by tracking the deuteriated headgroup through precursor scans of phosphocholine-d(9) (m/z 193(+) fragment). Among the other endonuclear phospholipids, diacyl phosphatidylethanolamines (neutral loss of m/z 141(+)) are also highly saturated compared with those of whole cell whereas, phophatidylinositols (precursor scans of m/z 241(-) fragment) are essentially identical in nuclei and whole cells. Moreover, the pattern of myo-inositol-d(6) acquisition into endonuclear phosphatidylinositol (precursor scans of m/z 247(-) fragment) is inconsistent with compartment-specific synthesis. Endonuclear sphingomyelins (seen in precursor scans of m/z 184(+) and confirmed from precursor scans of m/z 168(-) fragments) are enriched but similar in composition to whole cell species whereas endonuclear phosphatidylserines (neutral loss of m/z 87(-)) are more saturated than their whole cell counterparts. The focus of described methodologies emphasize their value in probing the compositions and dynamics of endonuclear phospholipids, but in principle may be extended to exploration of other isolable compartments including ER or plasma membranes.
,   After review of the principles of the simple and multiple Z-plasty the authors demonstrate clinical cases of primary facial wound closure and correction of large cervical scars.
,   Vitamin D deficiency is still prevalent worldwide, including the Middle East. A cohort of patients with nutritional rickets was treated with vitamin D(2) (ergocalciferol) alone. After this intervention, patients were followed to document changes in z scores for height after treatment. The secondary aim was to determine the proportion of affected children who had vitamin D deficiency or calcium deficiency.core for height was calculated as the difference between the observed value and the median value, divided by the SD of the population. Z scores were compared in patients before and after treatment. improvement in z score after treatment was 0.86 +/- 0.95. The 95% confidence interval for the mean difference was 1.32-0.40 (t = 3.95, P < 0.001). With a diagnostic cut-off for 25 hydroxyvitamin D(3) (25D) deficiency of <25 nmol/L, only half were diagnosed with severe vitamin D deficiency. The remaining patients had presumable calcium deficiency. The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was negatively correlated to z scores, implying that higher ALP concentrations predicted severe bone disease (lower z scores). The variables 25D and age were moderately and positively correlated (Pearson's r = 0.59, 95%CI: 0.15-0.84; P = 0.01), indicating that younger infants had the lowest 25D levels.amin D alone was efficient in resolving radiological and biochemical disturbances as well as improving z scores for height in a cohort of children with nutritional rickets, which included patients with 25D deficiency as well as calcium deficiency. The results support the hypothesis of the interplay and continuum of 25D deficiency and calcium deficiency in the pathogenesis of rickets.
,   In this work is taken into consideration the effectiveness therapeutics of the Chlorhexidine, in the practice of prevention of various forms of periodontal disease. The comparison with the Oradyne Z explain analogy of effects between the two compounds and the lack of collateral effects for part of this last.
,   Computer simulation of database searches of electron transfer dissociation (ETD) spectra using both "bottom up" and "top down" approaches was performed to evaluate the utility of knowing a priori which product ions contain the C-terminus (i.e., the z* ions). In this work, knowledge of the identities of the z* ions was used to exclude putative identifications that are based solely on the mass matching of undifferentiated product ions derived from an experiment with those derived from in silico fragmentation. The benefit from knowing which ions are z* ions was found to be heavily dependent on the quality of the ETD spectra, in terms of sequence coverage afforded by the product ions, the amount of noise in the spectra (i.e., extraneous peaks that do not directly reflect primary structure), and mass measurement accuracy. Under conditions in which the likelihood for misidentifications are high without a priori knowledge of ion types (e.g., b-, y-, c-, or z-ions), a knowledge of which product ions are z* ions allows discrimination against false-positive identifications. Relatively little benefit from knowing which ions are z* ions was noted when product spectra reflected relatively high sequence coverage and when a low fraction of the products ions were due to extraneous peaks (i.e., spectra with relatively little noise). In all cases, specificity is higher with higher mass measurement accuracy with the consequent reduction in benefit from knowledge of which ions are z* ions.
,   The precursor of Leu-enkephalin, Z-L-TyrGlyGly-L-Phe-L-LeuOEt, was synthesized from amino acid derivatives with three proteinases without the protection of the side chain of L-Tyr. First, Z-GlyGlyOBut and Z-L-TyrGlyGlyOBut were synthesized in quite a high yield, 83% and 99%, in an aqueous/organic biphasic system by papain and alpha-chymotrypsin, respectively. Then, Z-L-Phe-L-LeuOEt was synthesized by thermolysin from Z-L-Phe and L-LeuOEt either in buffer or in a biphasic system; the yields were 95% and 100%, respectively. The synthesis of Z-L-TyrGlyGly-L-Phe-L-LeuOEt from Z-L-TyrGlyGly and L-Phe-L-LeuOEt was performed effectively by thermolysin immobilized on Amberlite XAD-7 in a buffer and in an aqueous/organic biphasic system, as well as in saturated ethyl acetate, while the yield was low in reactions by free thermolysin. In the reaction with the immobilized enzyme (IME) in saturated ethyl acetate, the maximum yield of the precursor of Leu-enkephalin was 68%. The reasons for effective synthesis with IME are: (1) higher concentration of L-Phe-L-LeuOEt inside support, which resulted in rising the rate of the synthesis reaction and protecting the competitive hydrolysis of Z-L-TyrGlyGly by thermolysin, (2) entrapment of the product inside the support where thermolysin could not act in the case of reaction in buffer, and (3) extraction of the product with the organic solvent in the case of reaction in a biphasic system or in saturated organic solvent.
,   The Epstein-Barr virus early antigen diffuse component (EA-D) is essential for Epstein-Barr virus DNA polymerase activity, and its activity is suppressed during latent infection. We investigated the regulation of the promoter (BMRF1) for this early gene by studying its responsiveness in vitro to two immediate-early viral transactivators, BZLF1 (Z) and BRLF1 (R), focusing on the differences in response in lymphoid cells and epithelial cells. In lymphoid cells, Z or R alone produced only small increases in EA-D promoter activity, whereas both transactivators together produced a large stimulatory effect. In epithelial cells, the Z transactivator alone produced maximal stimulation of the EA-D promoter; the effect of R and Z together was no greater than that of Z alone. Deletional analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of the EA-D promoter demonstrated that in epithelial cells the potential AP-1 binding site plays an essential role in Z responsiveness, although sequences further upstream are also important. In lymphoid cells, only the upstream sequences are required for transactivation by the Z/R combination, and the AP-1 site is dispensable. These data suggest that EA-D (BMRF1) promoter regulation by Z and R is cell type specific and appears to involve different mechanisms in each cell type.
,   Biological processes such as transcription are expected to generate local variations in DNA supercoiling. The existence of localized supercoiling was recently demonstrated in Escherichia coli by using the supercoil-driven B-to-Z transition as a superhelicity probe. This new methodology is described and its extension to other biological systems discussed.
,   The title compound, C(26)H(20), lies about an inversion centre. The naphthalene unit and the hexa-triene chain are each approximately planar (maximum deviations of 0.0143 and 0.0042 Å, respectively), and are inclined to one another at a dihedral angle of 49.20 (4)°. The dihedral angle between the two naphthalene ring systems of neighboring mol-ecules is 85.71 (4)°.
,   The title compound, C(8)H(18)N(4)O(2) (2+)·2Cl(-), contains two oxime groups. The methyl oxime group has a Z configuration, and the ethyl oxime group is disordered, with both Z and E configurations in occupancies of 0.840 (8) and 0.160 (8), respectively. In the crystal structure, there are a number of N-H⋯Cl hydrogen bonds.
,   The title compound, C(13)H(11)ClF(3)NO(2), adopts a Z conformation. Halogen⋯oxygen inter-actions [Cl⋯O = 2.967 (3) Å] in the crystal packing lead to the formation of a dimer joined by two Cl⋯O bonds.
,   The title compound, C(18)H(12)N(2)O, crystallizes in a phenol-imine tautomeric form with a Z conformation for the imine functionality. The dihedral angle between the aromatic rings is 8.98 (9)°. A strong intra-molecular O-H⋯N hydrogen-bond inter-action between the hydroxyl group and imine N atom occurs.
,   To study the effect of work related variables on the height, weight, and body mass index (BMI) of working boys aged 10-16 years.ss sectional survey.id, Jarash, and North Jordan Valley in Jordan. working boys aged 10-16 years and their mothers.ght for age z score; weight for age z score; BMI for age z score.bivariate analysis, child's duration of work (r=-0.20), maternal height (r=0.26), and household per capita income (r=0.23) were significantly correlated with height for age z score and duration of work (r=-0.24), maternal height (r=0.24), and household per capita income (r=0.19) with weight for age z score. Duration of work (p<0.001), child's monthly income (p=0.044), maternal height (p=0.002), and household per capita income (p=0.005) were retained in the regression model fitted on height z score that explained 20.1% of the variance. The regression model fitted on weight z score explained 20.1% of the variance and duration of work (p<0.001), child's monthly income (p=0.022), household per capita income (p=0.017), and maternal height (p=0.004) were retained. Only duration of work (p=0.001) was retained in the model fitted on BMI for age z score. results of this study suggest that the length of time children have been working and low monthly income have a detrimental effect on growth of working boys independent of the effects of low household per capita income and small maternal stature. Relevance of these findings for social policy and health care of working boys in Jordan and elsewhere is discussed.
,   The Z ring, composed of the tubulin homolog FtsZ, is essential for bacterial cell division. Recently a new protein, ZapA, has been discovered that localizes to the Z ring and stabilizes it, probably by promoting the bundling of FtsZ protofilaments.
,   A titanium-catalyzed cis-hydroalumination of propargylic amines with Red-Al is described, which provides an efficient way to produce Z-configured allylic amines in good to excellent yields with high stereoselectivity and good regioselectivity. The hydride-bridged Al/Ti bimetallic species may act as a real catalyst in this reaction. 
,   The rate coefficients of ((E)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (Z)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (E)-CF(3)CF═CHF, and (Z)-CF(3)CF═CHF) + OH reactions were computed using M06-2X/6-31+G(d,p) theory in the temperature range of 200 and 400 K. The possible reaction mechanisms of the ((E)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (Z)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (E)-CF(3)CF═CHF, and (Z)-CF(3)CF═CHF) + OH reactions were examined. The rate coefficients for the addition and abstraction reactions were calculated using canonical variational transition state theory (CVT) and conventional transition state theory (CTST), respectively, and we concluded that abstraction reactions are negligible within the temperature range and addition reactions take the lead role. The small curvature tunnelling (SCT) was included in the computation of the rate coefficients. The temperature dependent rate expressions (in cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)) of the (E)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (Z)-CF(3)CH═CHF, (E)-CF(3)CF═CHF, and (Z)-CF(3)CF═CHF + OH reactions between 200 and 400 K are presented. The atmospheric lifetimes and global warming potentials (GWPs) of the test molecules were computed using the rate coefficients obtained in this study, and it is concluded that these molecules are very short-lived in the Earth's atmosphere with low GWPs.
,   The first total synthesis of 6(E),8(Z),11(Z),13(E) 5-oxo-15-HETE 4 was accomplished. The synthetic material was evaluated with calcium mobilization assay and compared with 5-oxo-ETE the natural ligand for the OXE receptor.
,   A novel multicomponent condensation, leading to the rare (Z)-chloromethyleneketals and their sulfur analogues, has been discovered. The mechanism of this reaction has been studied in some detail and subsequent modifications were performed on the adducts, leading to unusual Umpolung transforms.
,   The total syntheses of the cytotoxin marine natural product floresolide B (1) and its Delta(6,7)-Z isomer (2) have been achieved through an olefin metathesis-based strategy.
,   An exploration of the parameters necessary to obtain high-resolution excitation, using dipolar excitation, of an ion in a linear ion trap has been undertaken in this study. These parameters included ion trap pressure, excitation amplitude, excitation period, drive frequency of the ion trap, Mathieu q value and the mass of the ion of interest. An understanding of how these parameters play a role in high-resolution excitation is necessary to the development of a method for the targeted tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) analysis of ions with the same nominal mass. Resonance excitation profiles with full width half maxima as narrow as 0.015 m/z units could be obtained, under the right conditions, for an ion from a homogenously substituted triazatriphosphorine at m/z 322.049, which translates into a mass resolution of >21 500. In this particular case the requirement for high resolution was a low trap pressure (3.8 × 10(-5) Torr), low excitation amplitude (3 mV), long excitation period (100 ms) and a high Mathieu q value(0.8) when using a drive frequency of 1.228 MHz. Similar conditions were used to demonstrate the isolation of individual [M + H](+) component ions from mixtures of bromazepam (m/z 316.008)/chlorprothixene (m/z 316.0921)/fendiline (m/z 316.206) and chlorprothixene (m/z 316.0921)/oxycodone (m/z 316.1543)/fendiline (m/z 316.206) prior to obtaining product ion spectra with excitation at q = 0.236. In the former mixture the individual components were isolated with near 100% efficiency while in the latter mixture the isolation efficiency dropped to near 50% for the oxycodone component and to 80% for the other components.
,   20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) production is increased in ischemic kidney tissue and may contribute to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury by mediating vasoconstriction and inflammation. To test this hypothesis, uninephrectomized male Lewis rats were exposed to warm ischemia following pretreatment with either an inhibitor of 20-HETE synthesis (HET0016), an antagonist (20-hydroxyeicosa-6(Z),15(Z)-dienoic acid), an agonist (20-hydroxyeicosa-5(Z),14(Z)-dienoic acid), or vehicle via the renal artery and the kidneys were examined 2 days after reperfusion. Pretreatment with either the inhibitor or the antagonist attenuated I/R-induced renal dysfunction as shown by improved creatinine clearance and decreased plasma urea levels, compared to controls. The inhibitor and antagonist also markedly reduced tubular lesion scores, inflammatory cell infiltration, and tubular epithelial cell apoptosis. Administering the antagonist accelerated the recovery of medullary perfusion, as well as renal medullary and cortical re-oxygenation, during the early reperfusion phase. In contrast, the agonist did not improve renal injury and reversed the beneficial effect of the inhibitor. Thus, 20-HETE generation and its action mediated kidney injury due to I/R. Whether or not these effects are clinically important will need to be tested in appropriate human studies.
,   Reaction of allyl bromide (Z)-1 and (Z)-2 with N-substituted hydroxylamine hydrochlorides in presence of tert-butoxide in tert-butanol at reflux provides a short and effective route to [1,2]isoxazolidin-5-ones 3 and [1,2]oxazin-6-ones 4.
,   Zeaxanthin (Z) has a role in the dissipation of excess excitation energy by participating in non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and is essential in protecting the chloroplast from photooxidative damage. To investigate the physiological effects and functional mechanism of constitutive accumulation of Z in the tomato at salt stress-induced photoinhibition and photooxidation, antisense-mediated suppression of zeaxanthin epoxidase transgenic plants and the wild-type (WT) tomato were used. The ratio of Z/(V + A + Z) and (Z + 0.5A)/(V + A + Z) in antisense transgenic plants were maintained at a higher level than in WT plants under salt stress, but the value of NPQ in WT and transgenic plants was not significantly different under salt stress. However, the maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) and the net photosynthetic rate (Pn) in transgenic plants decreased more slowly under salt stress. Furthermore, transgenic plants showed lower level of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), superoxide anion radical (O(2)(•-)) and ion leakage, lower malondialdehyde content. Compared with WT, the content of D1 protein decreased slightly in transgenic plants under salt stress. Our results suggested that the constitutive accumulation of Z in transgenic tomatoes can alleviate salt stress-induced photoinhibition because of the antioxidant role of Z in the scavenging quenching of singlet oxygen and/or free radicals in the lipid phase of the membrane.
,   A highly stereoselective approach to novel tetrasubstituted (Z)-β-hydroxy-α-TMS silyl enol ethers is described. The reaction proceeds via a sequential addition/[1,2]-Brook rearrangement/epoxide-opening process of TMS-substituted oxiranyl anions with acylsilanes.
,   A nickel-catalyzed transfer hydrogenative alkyne semireduction protocol that can be applied to both internal and terminal alkynes using formic acid and Zn as the terminal reductants has been developed. In the case of internal alkynes, the (E)- or (Z)-olefin isomer can be accessed selectively under the same reaction conditions by judicious inclusion of a triphos ligand. 
,   Vinylpentafluorocyclopropanes 1 react with I(2) to give the (Z)-1,5-adduct 2, whereas 1 reacts with Cl(2), Br(2) or I-Cl to produce (Z)-1,5-adduct 3 predominantly along with small amounts of 1,2-adduct 4, which are formed by a radical mechanism and an ionic mechanism, respectively.
,   The mechanics of repairing round and oval wounds by O to Z-plasty and some personal modifications and uses in special circumstances and locations are described. Several schematics and photographs illustrate the technique and clinical results.
,   Mass spectrometry of disaccharides in the negative-ion mode frequently generates product anions of m/z 221. With glucose-containing disaccharides, dissociation of isolated m/z 221 product ions in a Paul trap yielded mass spectra that easily differentiated between both anomeric configurations and ring forms of the ions. These ions were shown to be glucosyl-glycolaldehydes through chemical synthesis of their standards. By labeling the reducing carbonyl oxygen of disaccharides with 18O to mass discriminate between monosaccharides, it was established that the m/z 221 ions are comprised solely of an intact nonreducing sugar with a two-carbon aglycon derived from the reducing sugar, regardless of the disaccharide linkage position. This enabled the anomeric configuration and ring form of the ion to be assigned and the location of the ion to the nonreducing side of a glycosidic linkage to be ascertained. Detailed studies of experimental factors necessary for reproducibility in a Paul trap demonstrated that the unique dissociation patterns that discriminate between the isomeric m/z 221 ions could be obtained from month-to-month in conjunction with an internal energy-input calibrant ion that ensures reproducible energy deposition into isolated m/z 221 ions. In addition, MS/MS fragmentation patterns of disaccharide m/z 341 anions in a Paul trap enabled linkage positions to be assigned, as has been previously reported with other types of mass spectrometers.
,   Binding of RecA to poly(dG-m5dC) and poly(dG-dC) under B- and Z-form conditions was studied using circular dichroism (CD) and linear dichroism (LD). LD revealed a quantitative binding of RecA to Mg2+-induced Z-form poly(dG-m5dC) with a stoichiometry of 3.1 base pairs/RecA monomer, which is slightly larger than the 2.7 base pairs observed for the B-form. The LD spectra indicate a preferentially perpendicular orientation of DNA bases and a rather parallel orientation of the tryptophan residues relative to the fiber axis in both complexes. The association rate of RecA to Z-form DNA was found to be slower than to B-form. CD measurements showed that the polynucleotide conformation is retained upon RecA binding, and CD and LD confirm that RecA binds to both forms of DNA. The Mg2+-induced Z-form is shown to be retransformed into B-form, both in free and in RecA-complexed polynucleotides by addition of NaCl, whereas the B----Z transition cannot be induced by addition of Mg2+ when the polynucleotide is complexed with RecA. From this it is inferred that RecA does not stabilize the Z-conformation of the polynucleotide but that it can kinetically "freeze" the polynucleotide in its B-conformation. On all essential points, the same conclusions were also reached in a corresponding study of unmethylated poly(dG-dC) with the Z-form induced by Mn2+.
,   Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1) belongs to a family of proteins that contain the Zalpha domain, which binds specifically to left-handed Z-DNA and Z-RNA. Like all vertebrate proteins in the Zalpha family, it contains two Zalpha-like domains and is highly inducible by immunostimulation. Using circular dichroism spectroscopy and electrophoretic mobility shift assays we show that both Zalpha domains can bind Z-DNA independently and that substrate binding is greatly enhanced when both domains are linked. Full length ZBP1 and a prominent splice variant lacking the first Zalpha domain (DeltaZalpha) showed strikingly different subcellular localizations. While the full length protein showed a finely punctate cytoplasmatic distribution, ZBP1DeltaZalpha accumulated in large cytoplasmic granules. Mutation of residues important for Z-DNA binding in the first Zalpha domain resulted in a distribution comparable to that of ZBP1DeltaZalpha. The ZBP1DeltaZalpha granules are distinct from stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies but dynamically interacted with these. Polysome stabilization led to the disassembly of ZBP1DeltaZalpha granules, indicating that mRNA are integral components. Heat shock and arsenite exposure had opposing effects on ZBP1 isoforms: while ZBP1DeltaZalpha granules disassembled, full length ZBP1 accumulated in SGs. Our data link ZBP1 to mRNA sorting and metabolism and indicate distinct roles for ZBP1 isoforms.
,   By a novel one-pot reaction sequence involving consecutive organocopper-mediated reduction, transmetalation and asymmetric alkylation, a highly diastereoselective synthesis of functionalized (Z)-fluoroalkene dipeptide isosteres was achieved in good to excellent yields.
,   Use of a superbase in the Favorskii rearrangement of 12 resulted in the synthesis of highly sterically hindered olefins, (E)-2- tert-butyl-4,4-dimethyl-pent-2-enoic acid (4) and (Z)-2- tert-butyl-4,4-dimethyl-pent-2-enoic acid (3).
,   The first Pd-catalyzed intermolecular [2+1+1] annulation reaction of (Z)-bromostyrene derivatives and norbornenes has been realized. Bismethylenecyclobutane derivatives were obtained with high yields. The domino coupling reaction involves a double Heck-type coupling process, twofold C(sp(2))-H bond activation and formation of three carbon-carbon bonds. 
,   The structure of this compound, originally described in space group C2/c [Averbuch-Pouchot & Durif (1987). Acta Cryst. C43, 1653-1655] is properly described as rhombohedral, space group R3c, with a = 12.355 (4) A, a = 51.01 (2) degrees, Z = 2. (Hexagonal cell: a = 10.640 (4), c = 32.16 (2) A, Z = 6). Revised coordinates are given.
,   In vitro studies have suggested that dopamine D1- and D2-like receptors interact to inhibit renal sodium transport. We used Z-1046, a dopamine receptor agonist with the rank-order potency D3 >/= D4 > D2 > D5 > D1, to test the hypothesis that D1- and D2-like receptors interact to inhibit renal sodium transport in vivo in anesthetized rats. Increasing doses of Z-1046, administered via the right renal artery, increased renal blood flow (RBF), urine flow, and absolute and fractional sodium excretion without affecting glomerular filtration rate. For determination of the dopamine receptor involved in the renal functional effects of Z-1046, another group of rats received Z-1046 at 2 microgram . kg-1 . min-1 (n = 10) in the presence or absence of the D2-like receptor antagonist domperidone and/or the D1-like antagonist SCH-23390. Domperidone alone had no effect but blocked the Z-1046-mediated increase in urine flow and sodium excretion; it enhanced the increase in RBF after Z-1046. SCH-23390 by itself decreased urine flow and sodium excretion without affecting RBF and blocked the diuretic, natriuretic, and renal vasodilatory effect of Z-1046. We conclude that the renal vasodilatory effect of Z-1046 is D1-like receptor dependent, whereas the diuretic and natriuretic effects are both D1- and D2-like receptor dependent.
,   Green-leaf volatiles are commonly emitted from mechanically and herbivore-damaged plants. Derived from the lipoxygenase pathway, these compounds may serve as attractants to predators and parasitoids of herbivores, prevent the spread of bacteria and fungi, and induce several important plant defense pathways. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the major volatile released upon mechanical wounding of the leaves is the GLV ester, (Z)-3-hexen-1-yl acetate. We have characterized a member of the BAHD acyltransferase gene family At3g03480 which catalyzes the formation of (Z)-3-hexen-1-yl acetate from acetyl-CoA and (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol. The encoded acetyl CoA:(Z)-3-hexen-1-ol acetyltransferase (CHAT) has the ability to accept several medium-chain-length aliphatic and benzyl-derived alcohols, but has highest catalytic efficiency with (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol. The highest expression of CHAT occurs in the leaves and stems. Upon mechanical damage, the (Z)-3-hexen-1-yl acetate emission peaked after 5 min and declined to pre-damage levels after 90 min. However, CHAT gene transcript levels increased much more slowly with the highest levels detected between 3 and 6 h after wounding. An increase in CHAT enzyme activity in vitro followed the transcript increase, with levels peaking between 10 and 12 h after wounding. Plants expressing either an RNAi cassette for the CHAT gene or plants harboring a T-DNA insertion in the CHAT coding region had greatly reduced (Z)-3-hexen-1-yl acetate emission, showing that the CHAT enzyme is responsible for the in planta production of this ester.
,   A method is presented for the closure of a circular defect without altering its shape. It employs semicircular rotational flaps and Z-plasties. Its use in 178 patients with malignant skin neoplasms is presented.
,   To investigate the Z scores for growth and development, physical fitness, and the relationship between them in preschool children in Yantai City, China, and to provide scientific evidence for health care in children.otal of 362 children aged 3 to 4 years, whose data were recorded in the National Physical Fitness Survey in Yantai in 2010, were included in the study. Z scores for weight-for-age, height-for-age and body mass index-for-age were calculated. The relationship between Z scores and physical fitness was determined by Pearson's correlation analysis. mean Z scores were all positive numbers. The prevalence rates of underweight and growth retardation were very low, but that of obesity was relatively high (up to 16.5% in 4-year-old boys). There were differences in physical fitness between children of different ages and between boys and girls (P<0.05). The Z scores showed correlation with some physical fitness indices (P<0.05), but they were not closely correlated as the value of r was not more than 0.30.cores for growth and development remain at relatively high levels in preschool children in Yantai. The physical fitness is associated with age and gender in these children. There are weak correlations between Z scores and some physical fitness indices. Effective measures should be taken to adjust dietary habits and promote exercise for children, thus preventing obesity and improving physical fitness.
,   The Z-plasty is an excellent procedure for both lengthening contracted scars and/or changing the direction of scars for improved cosmetic effect. It is a common tool of plastic surgeons. With appropriate training, experience and due care it is a procedure that many general practitioners could use.
,   To evaluate the etiology, management, and maternal and perinatal outcome in patients with septic shock during pregnancy.18 patients with septic shock during pregnancy, the criteria for the diagnosis were sepsis-induced hypotension unresponsive to adequate fluid resuscitation and requirement for vasopressors.ses of shock were pyelonephritis (n = 6), chorioamnionitis (n = 3), postpartum endometritis (n = 2), toxic shock (n = 2), and one each of septic abortion, ruptured appendix, ruptured ovarian abscess, necrotizing fasciitis, and bacterial endocarditis. Five women (28%) died. Comparing medians of the initial laboratory data for the 13 survivors with those of the five nonsurvivors revealed significant differences for hematocrit (26 compared with 35%; Z = -2.267, P = .023), aspartate aminotransferase (30 compared with 287 U/L; Z = -2.068, P = .042), total bilirubin (1.6 compared with 5.8 mg/dL; Z = 2.046, P = .045), arterial carbon dioxide pressure (30 compared with 19 mmHg; Z = -2.384, P = .013), and arterial oxygen pressure (62 compared with 104 mmHg; Z = -2.004, P = .048). Comparing medians of the hemodynamic data showed differences in blood pressure (88 compared with 70 mmHg; Z = -2.439, P = .013), stroke volume (74 compared with 52 mL; Z = -2.041, P = .038), and left ventricular stroke work index (42 compared with 12 g.m.m2; Z = -1.929, P = .052). Sixty-four percent of survivors and 80% of nonsurvivors had depressed left ventricular function (Fisher exact test, P > .99). Locating the source of infection was difficult and delayed in eight patients.women with septic shock, progression to death can be dramatically rapid. Because vascular permeability is increased, it may be appropriate to administer vasopressors early during resuscitation. An initial low cardiac output is a poor prognostic sign.
,   Significant number of patients with cloacal exstrophy variants present with poorly developed scrotum. Widely divergent hypoplastic scrotal sacs pose a technical challenge for scrotal reconstruction. We describe a technique of bilateral Z-plasty for the creation of single scrotal sac in a patient with widely divergent, hypoplastic scrotal sacs. 
,   A key aspect of any intervention to improve obesity is to better understand the environment in which decisions are being made related to health behaviors, including the food environment. aim was to examine the extent to which proximity to six types of food establishments is associated with BMI z-score and explore potential effect modification of this relationship. We used geographical information software to determine proximity from 49,770 pediatric patients' residences to six types of food establishments. BMI z-score obtained from the electronic health record was the primary outcome.multivariable analyses, living in closest proximity to large (β, -0.09 units; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.13, -0.05) and small supermarkets (-0.08 units; 95% CI, -0.11, -0.04) was associated with lower BMI z-score; living in closest proximity to fast food (0.09 units; 95% CI, 0.03, 0.15) and full-service restaurants (0.07 units; 95% CI, 0.01, 0.14) was associated with a higher BMI z-score versus those living farthest away. Neighborhood median income was an effect modifier of the relationships of convenience stores and full-service restaurants with BMI z-score. In both cases, closest proximity to these establishments had more of an adverse effect on BMI z-score in lower-income neighborhoods.ing closer to supermarkets and farther from fast food and full-service restaurants was associated with lower BMI z-score. Neighborhood median income was an effect modifier; convenience stores and full-service restaurants had a stronger adverse effect on BMI z-score in lower-income neighborhoods.
,   A novel and highly stereoselective synthesis of Z-β-enaminonitriles from azides and α,β-unsaturated nitriles is reported. The reaction proceeds via a 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition-ring cleavage-rearrangement cascade mediated by a catalytic amount of Sc(OTf)3. A plausible reaction mechanism for this process is depicted. 
,   β-ionone, a model compound of carotenoids ring structure, was investigated by FT-IR spectroscopy in a low-temperature argon matrix as well as using B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) and MP2/6-311++G(d,p) quantum-chemical calculations. The spectrum of matrix-isolated E-β-ionone was analyzed and attributed to six conformers of the compound. Then, matrix-isolated E-β-ionone was submitted to UV irradiation using either a broadband source (with different cutoff filters) or a narrowband laser/MOPO system (at various wavelengths). Upon 240 nm narrowband irradiation, the formation of both Z-retro-γ-ionone and Z-β-ionone was observed, the reactant and the photoproducts being in a photostationary equilibrium. Under these conditions, the matrix environment was found to hamper subsequent reactions of Z-retro-γ-ionone and Z-β-ionone, so that this last species could be observed directly for the first time. Furthermore, the formation of Z-retro-γ-ionone was shown to occur directly via an intramolecular [1,5] H-atom shift and thereby, under the constraints imposed by the matrix confinement, the conformations assumed by this photoproduct were found to be strictly determined by those initially assumed by the reactant molecules. Broadband irradiation resulted in the completion of the reaction (disappearance of the reactant) and the sole observation of Z-retro-γ-ionone. These results imply that under these conditions the Z-β-ionone is unstable, very likely decaying to additional conformers of Z-retro-γ-ionone, as reflected in the broader bands due to this photoproduct observed in the infrared spectra of the broadband irradiated matrix.
,   Reaction of 2,2,2-trichloroethyl alkyl ethers with 2 molar equiv of CuCl/bpy in refluxing DCE yielded (Z)-1-alkoxy-2-chloroethenes stereoselectively as the major product via 1,2-H shift in copper-chlorocarbenoid intermediate. 2,2,2-Trichloroethyl carboxylates undergo a radical 1,2-acyloxy shift under similar conditions.
,   Body composition in classical galactosaemia has not been studied. Patients with classical galactosaemia, an inherited disorder of galactose metabolism caused by deficiency of galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase (GALT, EC 2.7.7.10), might be at risk for an abnormal body composition because of intrinsic factors related to galactosaemia and/or diet-related factors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the body composition of children with classical galactosaemia. The studied population was a previously reported group of classical galactosaemia patients (13 male and 27 female, ages 3-17 years) with decreased height, weight, weight-for-height and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) Z-scores. Body composition data were obtained by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). In order to correct for height, fat mass (FM) and lean tissue mass (LTM) were divided by squared height. Mid-parental target height Z-scores were assessed and compared to actual height Z-scores. Linear and multiple regression analysis were done to investigate the relationship between body composition and IGF-I, dietary intake and growth data. We found decreased height Z-scores when compared to mid-parental target height Z-scores. Mean scores for FM and LTM (both adjusted for height) were decreased. LTM (adjusted for height) and height Z-score were correlated with IGF-I Z-score. FM (adjusted for height) was correlated with soy intake. No correlation was found between soy intake and IGF-I Z-score. In this limited group of patients, height is decreased and body composition is abnormal. The decreased levels of IGF-I and/or soy nutrition might play a role in these findings.
,   Unexpected losses in stereochemistry from Stille reactions involving Z-alkenyl halides have been shown to be ligand dependent. A new set of reaction conditions has been developed that, in most cases, leads to highly stereoselective cross-couplings under mild conditions, along with improved yields.
,   In this study, a large area of well preserved Zostera japonica dominated meadow was found in a coastal lagoon, Swan Lake, in Rongcheng of Shandong Province. Due to its unique geographical position and high biomass, this meadow may act as a typical Z. japonica bed in the coastal area of Shandong. From September, 2011 to October, 2012, an annual investigation was conducted on the Z. japonica and its habitats in east coast of Swan Lake, and the distribution of the Z. japonica and its habitats ecological characteristics were preliminarily understood. The major ingredients of sediments particles in the Z. japonica bed was sand (81%) and silt (14%). The C and N contents in the sediments were the highest in winter, and the C/N ratio was the highest in autumn. The shoot density, shoot height, and biomass of the Z. japonica were all significantly correlated with water temperature (P < 0.05). There was an obvious change in the Z. japonica growth among seasons, with the peak biomass obtained in August-September. The C and N contents and C/N in Z. japonica leaves also varied with seasons. The leaf C content was significantly higher in autumn than in spring and summer (P < 0.05), the leaf N content was significantly lower in summer than in spring and autumn (P < 0.01), whereas the leaf C/N ratio was significantly higher in summer than in spring (P < 0.05). The annual carbon sequestration by the Z. japonica in the Swan Lake was estimated to be 111.4 g C x m(-2).
,   Noonan syndrome is a genetic condition that can present with complex thoracic defects, the management of which often presents a surgical challenge. We present the surgical approach applied to a severe combined excavatum/carinatum deformity that had resulted in a Z-type configuration of the chest in a 9-year-old girl with Noonan syndrome. 
,   Voxel-based morphometry (VBM), used for detecting brain atrophy, permits comparison of local gray matter concentration at every voxel in an image between two groups. We sought to delineate the specific patterns of cerebral gray matter loss with regard to onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using MR imaging and VBM and to evaluate the diagnostic performance of VBM with Z score images. groups of 30 patients with mild AD of different ages of onset were examined. Mean ages in the early- and late-onset groups were 60.2 +/- 5.2 and 71.5 +/- 2.6 years, respectively. Control subjects were aged-matched healthy volunteers. Regions of gray matter loss in early- and late-onset AD were examined with VBM. Diagnostic performance of Z score images obtained with the VBM method was evaluated in patients and control subjects by calculating the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (A(z)).h AD groups had significantly reduced gray matter in the bilateral medial temporal regions. In addition, the early-onset group had more severe gray matter loss in the bilateral parietal and posterior cingulate cortices and precuneus region. No difference was noted in diagnostic performance of Z score images between the early- (A(z) = 0.9435) and late-onset (A(z) = 0.9018) groups.ferences were noted in the patterns of regional gray matter loss in patients with early-onset AD versus those with late-onset AD. Parietotemporal and posterior cingulate gray matter loss was found in early-onset AD but not in late-onset AD. Z score images obtained with VBM had a great diagnostic performance for mild AD and can be applied for detecting mild AD in clinical examinations.
,   In contrast to reported fact, the air-grown cells of Euglena gracilis z were found to excrete glycolate into the surrounding medium, when placed in an atmosphere of 100% O2 under illumination at 20000 lux at the same rate of the 5% CO2-grown cells, but with a lag phase of about 30 min. The lag was eliminated by lowering intracellular CO2 concentration in the air-grown cells. 
,   Z-discs were isolated from Lethocerus (waterbug) flight muscle by removing the contractile proteins from myofibrils with a solution of high ionic strength. Sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis confirmed a previous report that major Z-disc proteins had subunit mol.wts of 200 000, 180 000, 105 000, 95 000, 42 000 and 35 000. A protein of subunit mol.wt 25 000 was found in once-washed Z-discs but was degraded or was removed by successive washes. In addition, a protein of high molecular weight (less than 300 000) was found in Z-discs. Proteins of subunit mol.wts. 42 000, 35 000 and 25 000 were individually sliced from SDS/polyacrylamide gels and eluted. Amino acid analysis showed that the 35 000-subunit-mol.wt. protein was not, as was previously suggested, tropomyosin, but was a distinct Z-disc protein rich in proline. Calculations based on the amino acid analysis showed that this protein contained substantial hydrophobic regions. Preliminary investigations into the isoelectric point and a method of isolation of the 35 000-subunit-mol.wt. Z-disc protein are described. This protein was found in slices cut from SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoretograms of whole myofibrils. The protein of 42 000 subunit mol.wt. was shown by amino acid analysis to be actin and the 25 000-subunit-mol.wt. Z-disc protein was proline-rich.
,   Obesity and overweight are relevant public health issues. They are frequently associated with increased disability, enhanced morbidity and mortality and are often comorbid with several psychological/psychiatric conditions. The aim of the present study was to explore gender-related differences concerning anger expression and interpersonal relationships in a sample of overweight/obese subjects. convenience sample consisted of 40 overweight/obese subjects (18 women, 22 men) who were administered self-report questionnaires to assess eating disorders (EDI-2), anger levels (STAXI) and self/other perception as a measure of interpersonal relationships (9AP).en had higher scores on the EDI-2 subscales of Bulimia (7.22 vs. 2.20: z=7.61; p<.001), Body Dissatisfaction (15.56 vs. 12.14: z=1.88; p=.03), Interoceptive Awareness (9.89 vs. 5.28: z=4.06; p<.001), Ineffectiveness (11.00 vs 5.22: z=4.91; p <.001) and Perfectionism (6.33 vs. 3.26: z=4.13; p<.001) compared to norms. The overweight/obese men departed from the norms on fewer subscales. Both women and men tended to turn feelings of anger in toward themselves, suppressing their anger. Also, women obtained lower scores for Self Empathy (29.06 vs. 40.15: z = - 2.30; p = .01) and Other Empathy (16.44 vs. 27.10: z =- 2.00; p= .02) whereas overweight/ obese men obtained lower scores for Other Empathy (20.77 vs. 28.47: z=-2.00; p=.02).rweight/obese subjects have a tendency to turn feelings of anger inward on to themselves together with impaired interpersonal relationships, especially in women. An adequate clinical assessment in all obese individuals trying to identify the contribution of psychological factors to the perceived distress is critical.
,   Tracts of the alternating dinucleotide polydeoxythymidylic-guanylic [d(TG)].polydeoxyadenylic-cytidylic acid [d(AC)], present throughout the human genome, are capable of readily forming left-handed Z-DNA in vitro. We have analyzed the effects of the Z-DNA motif d(TG)30 upon homologous recombination between two nonreplicating plasmid substrates cotransfected into human cells in culture. In this study, the sequence d(TG)30 is shown to stimulate homologous recombination up to 20-fold. Enhancement is specific to the Z-DNA motif; a control DNA fragment of similar size does not alter the recombination frequency. The stimulation of recombination is observed at a distance (237 to 1,269 base pairs away from the Z-DNA motif) and involves both gene conversion and reciprocal exchange events. Maximum stimulation is observed when the sequence is present in both substrates, but it is capable of stimulating when present in only one substrate. Analysis of recombination products indicates that the Z-DNA motif increases the frequency and alters the distribution of multiple, unselected recombination events. Specifically designed crosses indicate that the substrate containing the Z-DNA motif preferentially acts as the recipient of genetic information during gene conversion events. Models describing how left-handed Z-DNA sequences might promote the initiation of homologous recombination are presented.
,   In contrast to other ants in the genus Monomorium that produce cyclic amines, extracts of Monomorium floricola contain (Z)-7-tetradecenylamine (1) and (Z)-9-tetradecenylamine (2). The structures of these compounds were established from their spectral data and by comparison with synthetic 2.
,   Recent studies combining chemotherapeutic agents with various biological response modifiers for the treatment of cancer have shown promising results. Cyclophosphamide (Cy) is the most widely used alkylating agent and a major constituent of combination chemotherapy regimens for many neoplastic diseases. It has been reported that Cy is a cytotoxic drug, which becomes immunosuppressive at higher doses. A synthetic metabolite of Cy, ASTA-Z, has recently been produced. ASTA-Z is more active and stable by itself and does not need to be metabolically converted to an active compound. The combined effect of Cy and interleukin-2 (IL-2) on the induction of lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells is not known. Therefore, we decided to investigate the effect of ASTA-Z on the induction and function of LAK. The coculture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) with various concentrations of ASTA-Z (0, 10(-6), 10(-5), 10(-4), and 10(-3) dilution) and IL-2 (50 U/ml) for 4 days produced significant suppression of cytotoxicity and lytic ability of the LAK cells against NK-sensitive (K562) and NK-resistant (M14) tumor cell lines. The lower doses of ASTA-Z did not affect the generation of LAK cells, its cytotoxicity and lytic ability of ASTA-Z against both NK-sensitive and NK-resistant tumor cell lines. Furthermore, the ASTA-Z produced dose-dependent suppression of the proliferative response of LAK cells. The significant therapeutic benefit in the cancer patient may be achieved by the low dose regimen of Cy and IL-2 because it has no deleterious effect on the induction and function of LAK cells.
,   Here, we characterize a plastidial thioredoxin (TRX) isoform from Arabidopsis thaliana that defines a previously unknown branch of plastidial TRXs lying between x- and y-type TRXs and thus was named TRX z. An Arabidopsis knockout mutant of TRX z had a severe albino phenotype and was inhibited in chloroplast development. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis of the mutant suggested that the expressions of genes that depend on a plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) were specifically decreased. Similar results were obtained upon virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of the TRX z ortholog in Nicotiana benthamiana. We found that two fructokinase-like proteins (FLN1 and FLN2), members of the pfkB-carbohydrate kinase family, were potential TRX z target proteins and identified conserved Cys residues mediating the FLN-TRX z interaction. VIGS in N. benthamiana and inducible RNA interference in Arabidopsis of FLNs also led to a repression of PEP-dependent gene transcription. Remarkably, recombinant FLNs displayed no detectable sugar-phosphorylating activity, and amino acid substitutions within the predicted active site imply that the FLNs have acquired a new function, which might be regulatory rather than metabolic. We were able to show that the FLN2 redox state changes in vivo during light/dark transitions and that this change is mediated by TRX z. Taken together, our data strongly suggest an important role for TRX z and both FLNs in the regulation of PEP-dependent transcription in chloroplasts.
,   Extracts of the intact hairpencil glands and hairs from the hairpencil glands of males ofHeliothis virescens (F.) were analyzed by capillary gas chromatography (GC) and by GC-mass spectroscopy. These analyses indicated that hexadecanyl acetate (212.4 ng/male), hexadecanol (22.3 ng/male), (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate (3.5 ng/male), octadecanyl acetate (14.2 ng/male) octadecanol (7.5 ng/male), tetradecanoic acid (2.7 ng/male), hexadecanoic acid (22.3 ng/male), and octadecanoic acid (6.5 ng/male) were present in the extracts. These compounds also were found in volatiles released from the hairpencil glands. In addition, GC analysis using both polar and apolar capillary columns indicated that extracts of the glands and extracts of the hairs from the hairpencil glands contained small amounts of tetradecanyl acetate, (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate, tetradecanol, (Z)-7-hexadecenyl acetate, (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate, and (Z)-11-hexadecenol. No (Z)-9-tetradecenal was present. Studies indicated that titers of the compounds increased rapidly during the 36 hr after adult eclosion and then leveled off, being maintained at high levels until released when the glandular hairs were exposed. During exposure of the hair pencils substantial amounts of the compounds were released. In vivo application of 500 ng of suspensions of (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate, (E)-11-hexadecenyl acetate, (Z)-11-tetradecenyl acetate, or (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate in dimethyl sulfoxide to the surface of the denuded hairpencil gland showed that biosynthesis proceeds to the alcohol via the acetate. 
,   This paper describes a method to extract membrane model parameters from experimental voltage-clamp records. The underlying theory is based on two premises: (1) the membrane dynamics can be described by a Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) model, and (2) the most reliable data provided by voltage clamp experiments are peak current (Ip) measurements. First, the steady-state characteristics of activation (x infinity) and inactivation (z infinity) must be estimated, and it is shown that Ip data provided by standard voltage-clamp stimulation protocols are sufficient for this purpose for the case of well-separated activation (tau x) and inactivation (tau z) time constants, tau x << tau z. Next, we propose a test (R test) to establish the suitability of the HH model to represent the data. When the HH model is applicable (successful R test), the procedure yields the degree of the gating variables, a range of maximum membrane conductance (g) values, and a tau x/tau z ratio that relates x infinity and z infinity to the Ip data. When additional information is available, such as the time of occurrence of Ip or an estimate of tau z from the late portion of the ionic current response, one can narrow down the value of g and estimate all the HH parameters and functions. Otherwise, when the R test is not successful, one can conclude that x infinity and z infinity have been incorrectly estimated because tau x and tau z are not sufficiently separated or that the HH model is not applicable to the data.
,   A liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed and validated for simultaneous determination of seven constituents including puerarin, daidzin, daidzein, paeoniflorin, albiflorin, liquiritin and liquiritigenin in rat plasma using schisandrin as the internal standard (IS). The plasma samples were pretreated by a one-step direct protein precipitation with acetonitrile. The chromatographic separation was carried out on a C18 column with a gradient mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile and water (containing 0.1% formic acid and 5mM ammonium acetate). All analytes and IS were quantitated through electrospray ionization in positive ion multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The mass transitions were as follows: m/z 417.5→297.2 for puerarin, m/z 417.1→255.2 for daidzin, m/z 255.2→152.4 for daidzein, m/z 498.1→179.3 for paeoniflorin, m/z 481.1→197.3 for albiflorin, m/z 436.2→257.3 for liquiritin, m/z 257.2→137.3 for liquiritigenin and m/z 415.0→384.2 for IS, respectively. All calibration curves exhibited good linearity (r>0.9979) over a wide concentration range for all components. The intra-day and inter-day precisions (RSD) at three different levels were both less than 14.3% and the accuracies (RE) ranged from -13.2% to 14.8%. The extraction recoveries of the seven compounds ranged from 72.9% to 117.4%. The validated method was successfully applied to pharmacokinetic study of the seven components in female rat plasma after oral administration of Ge-Gen Decoction aqueous extract. 
,   Titin is a giant elastic protein in vertebrate striated muscles with an unprecedented molecular mass of 3-4 megadaltons. Single molecules of titin extend from the Z-line to the M-line. Here, we define the molecular layout of titin within the Z-line; the most NH2-terminal 30 kD of titin is located at the periphery of the Z-line at the border of the adjacent sarcomere, whereas the subsequent 60 kD of titin spans the entire width of the Z-line. In vitro binding studies reveal that mammalian titins have at least four potential binding sites for alpha-actinin within their Z-line spanning region. Titin filaments may specify Z-line width and internal structure by varying the length of their NH2-terminal overlap and number of alpha-actinin binding sites that serve to cross-link the titin and thin filaments. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the NH2-terminal titin Ig repeats Z1 and Z2 in the periphery of the Z-line bind to a novel 19-kD protein, referred to as titin-cap. Using dominant-negative approaches in cardiac myocytes, both the titin Z1-Z2 domains and titin-cap are shown to be required for the structural integrity of sarcomeres, suggesting that their interaction is critical in titin filament-regulated sarcomeric assembly.
,   A reporter gene (lac-z) was introduced into rat (BT4C) and human (D-54 MG) proliferating glioma cell lines by means of liposomal transfection. Lac-z-transfected glioma cells were first cultured as multicellular spheroids and then confronted with fetal brain aggregates. After various intervals the lac-z reporter gene product, bacterial beta-galactosidase, was histochemically detected in the cocultures. beta-Galactosidase was only detected in the glioma cells which showed an intense blue staining, which made them easily distinguishable from fetal tissue. Both glioma cell lines showed a clear pattern of migration and increasing invasion with time as the tumor cells infiltrated and destroyed the brain aggregates. Spheroid growth curves showed no significant differences between transfected and nontransfected cell lines. Likewise, flow cytometry measurements revealed no significant changes in ploidy between transfected and nontransfected rat glioma cells. In comparison, a shift in ploidy was observed in the human glioma cells after lac-z transfection. Stable integration of the lac-z gene into tumor cells was verified by Southern blot analysis. The results indicate that transfection of the lac-z reporter gene into glioma cells lines does not affect their growth or invasion potential in vitro. The lac-z reporter gene can thus be exploited to facilitate visualization of single migrating tumor cells and quantification of tumor invasion in in vitro coculture systems.
,   The aim of this study was to investigate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients with depressive symptoms during dialysis.rteen patients with ESRD underwent Tc-99m ethylcysteinate dimer (Tc-99m ECD) brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and were evaluated the severity of depressive mood at pre-dialytic period and at least 6 months after dialysis initiation. rCBF was analyzed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM) in brain SPECT image. The responder was defined as a decrease of ≥25% in Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) score from baseline HDRS score.-dialysis brain SPECT did not show any rCBF differences between responders and non-responders. The follow-up brain SPECT revealed a significant higher perfusion in left middle temporal gyrus of responder group when compared with non-responder (hemisphere coordinate X, Y, Z; -58, -2, -16, peak Z = 3.36, p = 0.046). In responder, a significant increase in rCBF was found in right parahippocampal gyrus (hemisphere coordinate X, Y, Z; 30, -40, -14, peak Z = 3.51, p = 0.043). In non-responder, there were significant decreases in rCBF in left superior frontal gyrus (hemisphere coordinate X, Y, Z; -22, 30, 42, peak Z = 3.86, p = 0.032) and right orbitofrontal cortex (hemisphere coordinate X, Y, Z; 10, 58, -6, peak Z = 3.81, p = 0.046). present findings showed the characteristic patterns of rCBF changes in depressive ESRD patients having maintenance dialysis. Further investigations in brain blood flow and glucose metabolism are needed to elucidate the effect of dialysis itself and the difference of according to dialysis modality in patients having depression and ESRD.
,   The sex pheromone of the leafminer Phyllocnistis citrella Stainton (Lepidoptera: Gracillariidae) was deployed in a Florida citrus (Citrus spp.) grove by using a novel deployment device (IFM-413) containing SPLAT, a flowable formulation of an emulsified wax compound designed to provide slow release of semiochemicals. The device consisted of two disks connected by string. Each disk was loaded with 1 g of SPLAT containing either 0.15% (Z,Z,E)-7,11,13-hexadecatrienal (triene) or 2% (Z,Z)-7,11-hexadecadienal (diene). The devices were deployed using a two-dimensional multivariate design to determine the optimal rate of pheromone per unit area and degree of aggregation of the deployment devices (number of trees treated per unit area). The IFM-413 device proved effective at becoming securely entangled in tree branches. Furthermore, the devices effectively delivered pheromone-loaded SPLAT that resulted in disruption of trap catch of male P. citrella. Response surfaces showed a quadratic response of trap catch disruption to both total amount of pheromone per unit area and the degree of aggregation of the deployed devices (number of treated trees per unit area). The response surfaces for 0.15% triene or 2.0% diene were similar. The diene produced an effect similar to that of the triene at approximately 13 times the rate of the triene. The greatest disruption of trap catch occurred when the number of treated trees per unit area was greatest (no aggregation of deployment devices). Manufacturing, packaging, and mechanical deployment of the devices remain to be investigated.
,   α-Actinin2 (Actn2) is a predominant protein in the sarcomere Z disc whose mutation can lead to cardiomyopathy. However, the function of Actn2 in Z-disc assembly and cardiomyopathy in vertebrates remains elusive. We leveraged genetic tools in zebrafish embryos to elucidate the function of Actn2. We identified a single Actn2 homologue expressed in the zebrafish heart and conducted loss-of-function studies by antisense morpholino technology. Although zebrafish Actn2 assembles early into the Z disc, depletion of actn2 did not affect the early steps of sarcomere assembly. Instead, Actn2 is required for Z bodies to register laterally, forming well-aligned Z discs. Presumably as a consequence to this structural defect in the sarcomere, the depletion of Actn2 resulted in reduced cardiac function, primarily characterized as a reduced end-diastolic diameter. The depletion of actn2 also significantly reduced the ventricle chamber size, due to both reduced cardiomyocyte (CM) size and CM number. Interestingly, reduced CM size can be rescued by the cessation of heart contractions. The genetic studies of zebrafish uncovered a function for actn2 in lateral registration of Z body. In actn2 morphant fish, the Z-disc defect sequentially affects cardiac function, which leads to morphological changes in the ventricle through a mechanical force-dependent mechanism.
,   Chloroplast division is initiated by assembly of a mid-chloroplast FtsZ (Z) ring comprising two cytoskeletal proteins, FtsZ1 and FtsZ2. The division-site regulators ACCUMULATION AND REPLICATION OF CHLOROPLASTS3 (ARC3), MinD1, and MinE1 restrict division to the mid-plastid, but their roles are poorly understood. Using genetic analyses in Arabidopsis thaliana, we show that ARC3 mediates division-site placement by inhibiting Z-ring assembly, and MinD1 and MinE1 function through ARC3. ftsZ1 null mutants exhibited some mid-plastid FtsZ2 rings and constrictions, whereas neither constrictions nor FtsZ1 rings were observed in mutants lacking FtsZ2, suggesting FtsZ2 is the primary determinant of Z-ring assembly in vivo. arc3 ftsZ1 double mutants exhibited multiple parallel but no mid-plastid FtsZ2 rings, resembling the Z-ring phenotype in arc3 single mutants and showing that ARC3 affects positioning of FtsZ2 rings as well as Z rings. ARC3 overexpression in the wild type and ftsZ1 inhibited Z-ring and FtsZ2-ring assembly, respectively. Consistent with its effects in vivo, ARC3 interacted with FtsZ2 in two-hybrid assays and inhibited FtsZ2 assembly in a heterologous system. Our studies are consistent with a model wherein ARC3 directly inhibits Z-ring assembly in vivo primarily through interaction with FtsZ2 in heteropolymers and suggest that ARC3 activity is spatially regulated by MinD1 and MinE1 to permit Z-ring assembly at the mid-plastid. 
,   The Z-line represents a critical link between the transverse tubule network and cytoskeleton of cardiac cells with a role in anchoring structural proteins, ion channels, and signaling molecules. Protein kinase C-epsilon (PKC-epsilon) regulates cardiac excitability, cardioprotection, and growth, possibly as a consequence of translocation to the Z-line/T tubule region. To investigate the mechanism of PKC-epsilon translocation, fragments of its NH2-terminal 144-amino acid variable domain, epsilonV1, were fused with green fluorescent protein and evaluated by quantitative Fourier image analysis of decorated myocytes. Deletion of 23 amino acids from the NH2-terminus of epsilonV1, including an EAVSLKPT motif important for binding to a receptor for activated C kinase (RACK2), reduced but did not abolish Z-line binding. Further deletions of up to 84 amino acids from the NH2-terminus of epsilonV1 also did not prevent Z-line decoration. However, deletions of residues 85-144 from the COOH-terminus strongly reduced Z-line binding. COOH-terminal deletions caused 2.5-fold greater loss of binding energy (deltadeltaG) than did NH2-terminal deletions. Synthetic peptides derived from these regions modulated epsilonV1 binding and cardiac myocyte function, but also revealed considerable heterogeneity within populations of adult cardiac myocytes. The COOH-terminal subdomain important for Z-line anchoring maps to a surface in the epsilonV1 crystal structure that complements the eight-amino acid RACK2 binding site and two previously identified membrane docking motifs. PKC-epsilon anchoring at the cardiac Z-line/T tubule appears to rely on multiple points of contact probably involving protein-lipid and protein-protein interactions.
,   The explosive triacetone triperoxide (TATP) has been analyzed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) on a linear quadrupole instrument, giving a 62.5 ng limit of detection in full scan positive ion mode. In the ESI interface with no applied fragmentor voltage the m/z 245 [TATP + Na](+) ion was observed along with m/z 215 [TATP + Na - C(2)H(6)](+) and 81 [(CH(3))(2)CO + Na](+). When TATP was ionized by ESI with an applied fragmentor voltage of 75 V, ions at m/z 141 [C(4)H(6)O(4) + Na](+) and 172 [C(5)H(9)O(5) + Na](+) were also observed. When the precipitates formed in the synthesis of TATP were analyzed before the reaction was complete, a new series of ions was observed in which the ions were separated by 74 m/z units, with ions occurring at m/z 205, 279, 353, 427, 501, 575, 649 and 723. The series of evenly spaced ions is accounted for as oligomeric acetone carbonyl oxides terminated as hydroperoxides, [HOOC(CH(3))(2){OOC(CH(3))(2)}(n)OOH + Na](+) (n = 1, 2 ... 8). The ESI-MS spectra for this homologous series of oligoperoxides have previously been observed from the ozonolysis of tetramethylethylene at low temperatures. Precipitates from the incomplete reaction mixture, under an applied fragmentor voltage of 100 V in ESI, produced an additional ion observed at m/z 99 [C(2)H(4)O(3) + Na](+), and a set of ions separated by 74 m/z units occurring at m/z 173, 247, 321, 395, 469 and 543, proposed to correspond to [CH(3)CO{OOC(CH(3))(2)}(n)OOH + Na](+) (n = 1,2 ... 5). Support for the assigned structures was obtained through the analysis of both protiated and perdeuterated TATP samples.
,   Dilatation of the ascending aorta is an important sequel in conotruncal anomalies, such as tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) or d-transposition of the great arteries (TGA). We measured dimensions and their progression at different levels of the ascending aorta in 80 patients. In TOF patients, mean z-score for aortic annulus was 1.65 (range -3.16-6.47), for sinus 1.93 (range -2.28-5.39), for st-junction 4.15 (range 0.0-8.18), and for ascending aorta 3.51 (range -1.23-6.36). Over time, annulus z-scores increased in the univariate analysis [0.07/year, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.01-0.14; p = 0.02], and this was unique to male patients (0.08/year, 95 % CI 0.00-0.15; p = 0.05). z-scores of the ascending aorta decreased (-0.1/year, 95 % CI -0.18 to -0.02; p = 0.02), and this was confined to patients without aortic regurgitation (AR; -0.09/year, 95 % CI -0.18 to -0.01; p = 0.04). In TGA, mean z-score for the aortic annulus was 2.13 (range -3.71-8.39), for sinus 1.77 (range -3.04-6.69), for st-junction 1.01 (range -5.44-6.71), and for ascending aorta 0.82 (range -4.91-6.46). In bivariate analysis, annulus z-scores decreased in females (-0.14/year, 95 % CI -0.25 to -0.03; p = 0.01) and in patients without AR (-0.07/year, 95 % CI -0.14-0.0; p = 0.03). z-scores of the ascending aorta increased significantly in males (0.08/year, 95 % CI 0.0 to 0.16; p = 0.05) and in patients with AR (0.12/year, 95 % CI 0.03-0.21; p = 0.01). In conclusion, TOF and TGA z-scores of the ascending aorta differ significantly from those of the normal population. Progression of z-scores over time is influenced by diagnosis, sex, and presence of AR.
,   Two sympatric species of Asian arctiid moths (Creatonotos spp.) use a sequential, dual luring and mating system. After sunset males pneumatically expand their coremata from a cavity between the abdominal sternites 7 and 8 and release their pheromone. They attract other males and thus, scent-emitting male groups may develop. About 30 min later females are attracted to the calling males. Upon contact with a female the male's corema deflates and mating follows. After 1-2 h the male calling subsides and now the remaining virgin females continue to emit their pheromone bouquet from internal, tubular glands located in the dorsal part of the abdomen, rostrad from tergite 8/9. This attracts males and further matings occur.- The coremata are huge, pneumatically eversible organs composed of two pairs of tubes, up to 37 mm long, each covered by ca. 3000 scent hairs (scales). There is a giant epidermal (trichogen) gland cell at the base of each hair. One large corema may contain up to 0.5 mg of the pheromone, hydroxydanaidal. The internal, tubular female glands are antler shaped; their air-filled lumen is ventilated by abdominal pumping. The major components of the female attractant are (Z,Z,Z)-3,6,9-heneicosatriene and (Z,Z)-2 (2,5-octadienyl)-3-undecyloxirane with different ratios in the two species. One of the minor components, common to both species, is (Z,Z,Z)-3,6,9-tricosatriene. Only the male antennae possess specialized receptor cells for the female attractants; other antennal cells of both sexes respond to the male pheromone.
,   The enantioselective synthesis of (Z)-1,2-anti-2,5-anti-triol monosilyl ethers via a two-step sequence involving olefin cross-metathesis of β-alkoxyallylboronate 4 and subsequent allylboration of the derived bisboryl intermediate 6 provides triol monoethers 7 with good to excellent diastereoselectivity.
,   The regioselective head-to-head dimerization of alkynes is catalyzed by a dibenzyl tethered bis(ureate) zirconium precatalyst with aniline as an additive. This system also gives outstanding stereoselectivity to furnish Z-enynes in high yields. A dinuclear reactive intermediate has been characterized, which provides a potential mechanistic rationale for the unexpected regio- and stereoselectivity in this catalytic system.
,   We performed this study to assess the trend of geographical disparities between rural areas located in the catchment areas of 41 medical universities in Iran from 1993 to 2008. We evaluated four indicators including rates for neonatal mortality (NMR), infant mortality (IMR), under-5 mortality (U5MR) and crude death (CDR).got about 656 university-year data points for each of the indicators (missing data <0.5%). The people under assessment were between 16.7 (in 1993) to 20.1 million (in 2008). We measured disparities through the calculation of index of disparities (IDisp) and assessed the trends using the Cuzick non-parametric test for trend.ept for the increasing trend of CDR (Z=+2.83, p=0.005), the others had decreasing trends: NMR (Z=-3.23, p=0.001), IMR (Z=-3.84, p<0.001) and U5MR (Z=-3.84, p<0.001). The IDisp trends of IMR (Z=-2.2, p=0.027) and U5MR (Z=-2.84, p=0.005) were decreasing, while the IDisp trends for NMR (Z=+2.19, p=0.028) and CDR (Z=+2.39, p=0.017) were increasing. results show that at least for IMR and U5MR, in addition to improvement in average national levels, the geographical disparities have decreased. In the cases of NMR and CDR, inspite of the improvements in national levels, the trends of health disparities are not as good. We need to use strategies to provide more specialised care fairly in addition to primary healthcare to reduce disparities in CDR and NMR and influence them more.
,   A recent report suggests that 70%-80% Z-tenotomy of the superior oblique tendon is necessary to effectively treat A-pattern strabismus associated with over depression in adduction. To clarify the clinical effect, we compared the biomechanics of Z-tenotomy on the superior oblique tendon, superior rectus tendon, and isotropic latex material.sh bovine superior oblique tendons were trimmed to 20 mm × 10 mm dimensions similar to human superior oblique tendon and clamped in a microtensile load cell under physiological conditions of temperature and humidity. Minimal preload was applied to avoid slackness. Tendons were elongated until failure following Z-tenotomies, made from opposite tendon margins, spaced 8 mm apart and each encompassing 0%, 20%, 40%, 50%, 60%, or 80% tendon width. Digitally sampled failure force was monitored using a precision strain gauge. Control experiments were performed in similar-sized specimens of bovine superior rectus tendon and isotropic latex.gressively increasing Z-tenotomy of latex caused a linearly graded reduction in force. In contrast, Z-tenotomy of up to 50% in superior oblique and superior rectus tendons caused nonlinear reduction in force transmission that reached a negligible value at 50% tenotomy and greater.enotomy up to 50% progressively reduces extraocular tendon force transmission, but Z-tenotomy of ≥50% is biomechanically equivalent in vitro to complete tenotomy.
,   To investigate the nutritional impact of a community-based programme that focused on social cohesion and action. change in nutritional status of children aged 12–60 months was examined over a period of 3 years in Makueni District in Eastern Province of Kenya in six communities in which an intervention programme of Participatory Learning and Action was introduced and in ten communities in which only basic preparations were made but no intervention was started. intervention was part of the Government of Kenya Community Based Nutrition Programme and was supported by the Government of Denmark.ldren aged 12–60 months.ng communities without intervention there were similar levels of underweight (mean Z-score: −1·63 v. −1·50 (NS); % with Z-score<–2: 36·6% v. 34·5% (NS)) and stunting (mean Z-score: −2·0 v. −1·99 (NS); % with Z-score<–2: 44·3% and 47·4% (NS)) at baseline and after 3 years. By contrast, among communities who had received interventions, there were significant improvements after 3 years in the levels of underweight (mean Z-score: −1·66 v. −1·37 (P<0·02); % with Z-score <–2: 42·9% v. 31·4% (P<0·035)) and stunting (mean Z-score: −2·05 v. −1·59 (P<0·05); % with Z-score<–2: 52·7% v. 39·7% (P<0·02)). results indicate considerable potential for using Participatory Learning and Action as a community-based approach to effectively address child undernutrition. It is suggested that these interventions are developed, implemented and evaluated more widely as a mean of tackling childhood undernutrition and improving child survival and development.
,   Newer non-benzodiazepines zolpidem and zopiclone ("Z-drugs") are often prescribed instead of benzodiazepine hypnotics, although there is no evidence of differences in effectiveness and safety. Aim was to compare perceptions on benefits and harms of benzodiazepines and Z-drugs between general practitioners (GPs) and community pharmacists (CPs).uestionnaire was mailed to a random sample of 1,350 GPs and 600 CPs in 2012. They were asked to rate perceptions on a five-point Likert scale used for both benzodiazepines and Z-drugs. Wilcoxon signed rank test was performed for the comparison of perceptions between GPs and CPs. Due to multiple testing, only p-values ≤0.01 were considered statistically significant. GPs and 202 CPs returned questionnaires (response 33.9% and 33.7%). Mean age of GPs was 53.3 years (40.6% female) and 48.8 years for CPs (59.2% females). Perceptions on benefits of benzodiazepines (and Z-drugs) between GPs and CPs were not different for 3 (and 2) of 5 items. Concerning side effects of benzodiazepines, there were no statistically significant differences for 3 of 5 comparisons. CPs perceived that 4 of 5 studied side effects of Z-drugs occur significantly more often than GPs (p=0.003 or less). For instance, whereas 45.2% of CPs answered that withdrawal effects on stopping happen often or very often/always on Z-drugs, these were only 28.3% of the GPs.hough it is difficult to draw unambiguous conclusions from these findings, pharmacists might have a somewhat more critical view on Z-drugs, especially concerning side effects.
,   Extended end-to-end anastomosis (EEEA) through a left thoracotomy for coarctation of the aorta (CoA) and tubular hypoplasia of the aortic arch (THAA) leaves an unaugmented hypoplastic proximal aortic arch (PAA) segment, which may increase late reintervention for PAA obstruction. We sought to assess PAA growth and reintervention for PAA obstruction after EEEA.operative and follow-up echocardiographic images of 140 patients who underwent EEEA for CoA from 2005 to 2012 were reviewed. Patients were divided into two groups on the basis of preoperative PAA z-scores: THAA group, z-score less than -3; non-THAA group, z-score greater than or equal to -3.hty (57%) patients were identified as having THAA. There were three surgical reinterventions (PAA in 2 patients and distal aortic arch in 1 patient) and nine catheter reinterventions (all related to anastomotic stenosis) during a median follow-up period of 18 months. Both patients who required PAA reintervention had preoperative PAA z-scores below -8. Freedom from reintervention at 3 years was comparable between the groups (THAA group, 90.0% vs non-THAA group, 87.9%, p = 0.483). Follow-up echocardiography revealed PAA catch-up growth in the THAA group (z-score, preoperative -4.63 vs follow-up -1.17, p < 0.001); however, there was a nonsignificant trend toward smaller PAA in the THAA group (z-score: THAA, -1.17 vs non-THAA, -0.55, p = 0.057). All but 2 patients with preoperative PAA z-scores above -6 did not have any PAA obstruction. hypoplastic PAA segment in patients with CoA/THAA grew significantly after EEEA but remained smaller than in those without THAA. Our data support that CoA and PAA with z-scores as small as -6 can be repaired through a thoracotomy approach with a low risk of reintervention.
,   Regulation of replicative functions in the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome is mediated through activation of a virally encoded transcription factor, Z (BZLF1). We have shown that the Z gene product, which binds to AP-1 sites as a homodimer and has sequence similarity to c-Fos, can efficiently activate the EBV early promoter, BMRF1, in certain cell types (i.e., HeLa cells) but not others (i.e., Jurkat cells). Here we demonstrate that the c-myb proto-oncogene product, which is itself a DNA-binding protein and transcriptional transactivator, can interact synergistically with Z in activating the BMRF1 promoter in Jurkat cells (a T-cell line) or Raji cells (an EBV-positive B-cell), whereas the c-myb gene product by itself has little effect. The simian virus 40 early promoter is also synergistically activated by the Z/c-myb combination. Synergistic transactivation of the BMRF1 promoter by the Z/c-myb combination appears to involve direct binding by the Z protein but not the c-myb protein. A 30-bp sequence in the BMRF1 promoter which contains a Z binding site (a consensus AP-1 site) is sufficient to transfer high-level lymphoid-specific responsiveness to the Z/c-myb combination to a heterologous promoter. That the c-myb oncogene product can interact synergistically with an EBV-encoded member of the leucine zipper protein family suggests c-myb is likely to engage in similar interactions with cellularly encoded transcription factors.
,   Benzodiazepines (BZD) and nonbenzodiazepines hypnotics (z-drugs) are recognized as one of the most widely prescribed medications in the world. purpose of the study was to assess the BZD and z-drugs dependence in young to middle-aged outpatients who were taking BZD/z-drugs on a chronic basis, and to characterize their profile.s is a forward-looking cross-sectional epidemiological study. Data were collected through a semi-structured interview within a network of partner pharmacies from the Nantes area, in France. All data were obtained exclusively through patients' declarations. 212 patients (19-64 years old) were included: they were considered dependent when they answered positively to at least three items of the DSM IV. A multivariate logistic regression and a principal component analysis (PCA) were carried out to determine their profile.ost half of the patients met criteria for BZD/z-drugs dependence. The risk to develop BZD/z-drugs dependence is significantly associated with psychiatric history and with the quantity of BZD/z-drugs that is taken. A two factor concept of dependence could be identified according to the PCA: one axis with items of "tolerance" and "long term administration or higher doses", and a second axis with "concerned by treatment" and "somatic consequences". Conclusions/Importance: Among this BZD/z-drug dependent population, the two axes identified in the PCA represent two profiles of dependence: being in positive conditioning or suffering from negative consequences. Clinicians need to know them: these two clinical profiles may have an influence in terms of decision-making, especially to manage discontinuation.
,   To determine the protective effect of zero-balanced ultrafiltration and modified ultrafiltration on infants' pulmonary function after cardiac surgery.ty infants with congenital heart diseases were randomly divided into 3 groups: a zero-balanced ultrafiltration group (Z group), a modified ultrafiltration group (M group) and a zero-balanced ultrafiltration with modified ultrafiltration group (Z+M group). Oxygenation index (OI), difference of alveoli-arterial oxygen pressure (P(A-α)O2), static lung compliance (Cstat), and airway resistance (Raw) were measured before caridopulmonary bypass (CPB, T1), 20 minutes after the CPB (T2), 2 h after the operation (T3), 6 h after the operation (T4) and 12 h after the operation (T5). The time of mechanical ventilation was also monitored.er the CPB, OI and Cstat in all groups decreased significantly, while Raw and P(A-α)O2 increased significantly. At T3, T4 and T5, OI and Cstat in the Z+M group were significantly higher than those in the Z group and the M group (P<0.05), Raw and P(A-α)O2 in the Z+M group were significantly lower than those in the Z group and the M group (P<0.05). The ventilation time in the Z+M group was significantly shorter than that in the Z group and the M group (P<0.05).o-balanced ultrafiltration and modified ultrafiltration can effectively promote the pulmonary function after cardiac surgery in infants.
,   Root caps of primary, secondary, and seminal roots of Z. mays cv. Kys secrete large amounts of mucilage and are in close contact with the root all along the root apex.  These roots are strongly graviresponsive.  Secondary and seminal roots of Z. mays cv. Ageotropic are also strongly graviresponsive.  Similarly, their caps secrete mucilage and closely appress the root all along the root apex.  However, primary roots of Z. mays cv. Ageotropic are non-responsive to gravity.  Their caps secrete negligible amounts of mucilage and contact the root only at the extreme apex of the root along the calyptrogen.  These roots become graviresponsive when their tips are coated with mucilage or mucilage-like materials.  Peripheral cells of root caps of roots of Z. mays cv. Kys contain many dictyosomes associated with vesicles that migrate to and fuse with the plasmalemma.  Root-cap cells of secondary and seminal (i.e. graviresponsive) roots of Z. mays cv. Ageotropic are similar to those of primary roots of Z. mays cv. Kys.  However, root-cap cells of primary (i.e. non-graviresponsive) roots of Z. mays cv. Ageotropic have distended dictyosomal cisternae filled with an electron-dense, granular material.  Large vesicles full of this material populate the cells and apparently do not fuse with the plasmalemma.  Taken together, these results suggest that non-graviresponsiveness of primary roots of Z. mays cv. Ageotropic results from the lack of apoplastic continuity between the root and the periphery of the root cap.  This is a result of negligible secretion of mucilage by cells along the edge of the root cap which, in turn, appears to be due to the malfunctioning of dictyosomes in these cells.
,   A new laboratory x-ray laser is described that is resonantly photopumped by two 3d ? 2p emission lines in fluorinelike vanadium (Z = 23) and lases on several 3p ? 3s transitions in neonlike titanium (Z = 22). Calculations show that five of the laser lines have gains greater than 5 cm(-1) for reasonable values of the pump lines, with the shortest wavelength of the five being at 32.65 nm.
,   The synthesis of (+/-)-histrionicotoxin has been achieved in just nine steps using a two-directional synthesis strategy. Key reactions include a two-directional cross-metathesis, a tandem oxime formation/Michael addition/1,4-prototopic shift/[3 + 2]-cycloaddition cascade, a selective Z,Z-bisenyne formation, and a one-pot N-O and bischloroacetylene reduction.
,   An efficient procedure for the preparation of Z-enamides has been developed, involving the reaction of primary amides with conjugated olefins using a Pd/Cu cocatalyst system. It was found that certain additives, such as phosphine oxides and phosphonates, increase the efficiency of the reaction in nonpolar solvents under an oxygen atmosphere, thus producing a variety of Z-enamides in high yields with excellent stereoselectivity under Wacker-type conditions. The oxidative amidation reaction has a broad substrate scope, allowing alkyl, aryl, and vinyl amides to react with olefins conjugated with ester, amide, phosphonate, and ketone groups. The notable preference for the formation of Z-enamides is presumably due to the presence of an intramolecular hydrogen bond between the amido proton and the carbonyl oxygen. The energy difference between two plausible sigma-alkylamidopalladium intermediates, leading to Z- and E-isomeric enamide products, respectively, was calculated to be 4.18 kcal/mol. The beta-hydride elimination step is assumed to be a stereochemistry-determining step in the overall oxidative amidation process, with the energy level for the transition state leading to the Z-enamide being 5.35 kcal/mol lower than that leading to the E-isomer. The efficiency of photoisomerization between Z- and E-enamides was observed to be largely dependent on the substrates' substituents, and certain E-enamides could be obtained in synthetically useful yields by photoirradiation of Z-isomers. Synthetic application of the present method was successfully demonstrated by a direct formal synthesis of cis-CJ-15,801.
,   Children with JIA can experience delayed and restricted growth. The objectives of this study were to investigate the influence of etanercept (ETN) on vertical growth and factors associated with improved growth in patients with JIA over the initial 2 years of treatment.s analysis was restricted to ETN-treated patients in the British Society for Paediatric and Adolescent Rheumatology Etanercept Cohort Study with complete height data recorded at baseline, 1 and 2 years. Height z-scores were calculated using the World Health Organization growth standards for age and gender. Change in height z-score was evaluated over time. Multivariable linear regression was used to identify factors associated with change in height z-score from baseline.otal of 191 ETN-treated patients were included: 65% female, median baseline age 11.0 years [interquartile range (IQR) 7.3-12.9], median disease duration 3.5 years (IQR 1.7-7.1). At baseline mean height z-score was -0.74 (s.d. 1.4). After 2 years mean height z-score increased to -0.45 (1.4) (change +0.29; P < 0.001). In multivariable analysis, factors associated with an improvement in height z-score included lower baseline height z-score [-0.110 per unit (95% CI -0.161, -0.059), P < 0.001] and no oral corticosteroid use at baseline [-0.192 (95% CI -0.343, -0.040), P = 0.013]. therapy was associated with an improvement in height z-score over the first 2 years of therapy in this real-world cohort of children with severe JIA. The lack of a strong association of improvements in height with improvements in disease activity warrants further exploration.
,   Herein, the regio- and stereoselective iodination, along with some examples for the bromination, of readily available acrylamides to access a variety of differently substituted Z-haloacrylic acid derivatives is reported. The reaction proceeds under mild conditions via a Rh(III)-catalyzed C-H-activation/halogenation mechanism and represents a rare example of a direct halogenation of electron-poor acrylic acid derivatives. 
,   From CATHARANTHUS ROSEUS cell suspension cultures 16 R-19,20- E-isositsirikine ( 1), 16 R-19,20- Z-isositsirikine ( 2) and a new sarpagine type indole alkaloid ( 5) have been isolated. The structures have been deduced from spectroscopic data; that of 5 has been confirmed by X-ray analysis.
,   Local flaps are the standard procedure to reconstruct facial defects. As it occurs in any surgical procedure, the incision should be planned so that scars are located in the minimum skin tension lines. We report two cases of O to Z flaps in the supra and infraciliary regions. One of them is a hatchet flap. 
,   We present a method that combines the Z-scan technique with nonlinear ellipse rotation (NER) to measure third-order nonlinear susceptibility components. The experimental details are demonstrated, and a comprehensive theoretical analysis is given. The validity of this method is verified by the measurements of the nonlinear susceptibility tensor of a well-characterized liquid, CS2.
,   A stereoselective one-pot procedure was developed to prepare S-substituted (Z)-enol esters through a base-triggered rearrangement. This transition metal-free multicomponent approach can be performed under an air atmosphere at room temperature, tolerates a wide set of chemical functionalities and generally affords high isolated yields. The (Z)-selectivity arises from the [1,4]-S- to O-acyl migration. 
,   Z-Enediynes are prepared by a vicinal dialkynylation of triaryl(arylethynyl)phosphonium cations. The method, which proceeds under mild transition metal-free conditions, can be conducted on multigram scale as a one-pot, phosphine-mediated synthetic cycle giving enediyne products with excellent control of configuration. 
,   One transition state for the 10 electron (4n+ 2) electrocyclisation of Z,E,Z-decapentaene is predicted to have the properties of a double-twist Möbius strip, with delocalised bond lengths and the NICS(0) magnetic index typical of aromaticity; a 5,6-di-(t)Bu substituted decapentaene is predicted to react in this mode in preference to the competitive six-electron electrocyclisation.
,   Previously the developmental switch to caspase-3 activation in the rat hippocampus has been shown during the third week of life. The goal of this study was to explore effects of caspase-3 inhibition during this period on learning in a two-way avoidance paradigm. On postnatal day 18, the pups were intracerebroventricularly administered with caspase-3 inhibitor Z-DEVD-FMK. Control groups were injected with either the control peptide Z-FA-FMK or saline. Caspase-3 inhibition, naturally activated in this critical period, was found to disturb the maturation of instrumental behavior. In particular, the young adult rats of Z-DEVD-FMK group displayed less effective elaboration of escape and active avoidance reactions in two-way avoidance paradigm, accompanied with a decrease in inter-trial crossings. However, associative components of the learning did not change after caspase-3 inhibition. Conditioned emotional behavior was, in general, similar in all groups, and the number of responses related to conditioned stimulus exploration did not differ in Z-DEVD-FMK and Z-FA-FMK groups. In spite of the deficit in active avoidance conditioning in Z-DEVD-FMK group, a significant increase in incomplete or preparatory reactions to conditioned stimulus was demonstrated suggesting that the association between predictive conditioned stimulus and possibility of crossing can be elaborated. The change of exploratory behavior is unlikely to be specific for caspase-3 inhibition, being similar in Z-DEVD-FMK and Z-FA-FMK groups.
,   Three-dimensional perturbations have been seeded in wire-array z pinches by etching 15 microm diameter aluminum wires to introduce 20% modulations in radius with a controlled axial wavelength. These perturbations seed additional three-dimensional imploding structures that are studied experimentally and with magnetohydrodynamics calculations, highlighting the role of current path nonuniformity in perturbation-induced magnetic bubble formation.
,   The retinoic acid-inducible gene I product (RIG-I) is a cellular sensor of RNA virus infection that regulates the cellular beta interferon (IFN-beta) response. The nucleoproteins (NP) of arenaviruses are reported to antagonize the IFN response by inhibiting interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3). Here, we demonstrate that the Z proteins of four New World (NW) arenaviruses, Guanarito virus (GTOV), Junin virus (JUNV), Machupo virus (MAVC), and Sabia virus (SABV), bind to RIG-I, resulting in downregulation of the IFN-beta response. We show that expression of the four NW arenavirus Z proteins inhibits IFN-beta mRNA induction in A549 cells in response to RNA bearing 5' phosphates (5'pppRNA). NW arenavirus Z proteins interact with RIG-I in coimmunoprecipitation studies and colocalize with RIG-I. Furthermore, expression of Z proteins interferes with the interaction between RIG-I and MAVS. Z expression also impedes the nuclear factor kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) and IRF-3 activation. Our results indicate that NW arenavirus Z proteins, but not Z protein of the Old World (OW) arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) or Lassa virus, bind to RIG-I and inhibit downstream activation of the RIG-I signaling pathway, preventing the transcriptional induction of IFN-beta.
,   Large defects of the middle cheek may prove difficult to repair. Too wide for primary closure, such defects pose challenging reconstructive options because there are no cosmetic unit boundaries in which to camouflage incision lines without resorting to widely undermined flaps.s article summarizes our experience with the Z-plasty and double Z-plasty transposition flaps for reconstruction of the cheek. Z-plasty transposition flap was used immediately after Mohs micrographic surgery to repair 14 defects of the middle cheek caused by basal cell carcinoma (n = 12) or squamous cell carcinoma (n = 2). In all cases, primary closure of the defect would have resulted in excessively long scars, scars oriented perpendicular to relaxed skin tension lines, and/or free-margin distortion. In 4 of these cases, a double Z-plasty was used. cosmetic and functional outcomes were judged from good to excellent by patient and surgeon. No cases of infection occurred. In one patient, minor superficial tip necrosis healed without incident. A "spit" subcutaneous suture at one flap tip of another patient left a small nodular scar, which was primarily excised and healed well. Z-plasty and double Z-plasty transposition flaps offer excellent primary reconstructive modalities for the repair of geographically isolated defects of the cheek that are large or misoriented for primary side-to-side closure. The theoretical and practical geometric characteristics of the Z-plasty transposition require preparation and practice to achieve consistently satisfying results.
,   With large-scale Monte Carlo simulations, we confirm that for the two-dimensional XY model, there is a logarithmic correction to scaling in the dynamic relaxation starting from a completely disordered state, while only an inverse power law correction in the case of starting from an ordered state. The dynamic exponent z is z=2.04(1).
,   Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are a valuable model for studying immunity, infection, and hematopoietic disease and have recently been employed for transplantation assays. However, the lack of syngeneic zebrafish creates challenges with identifying immune-matched individuals. The MHC class I genes, which mediate allogeneic recognition in mammals, have been grouped into three broad lineages in zebrafish: the classical U genes on chromosome 19, the Z genes which have been reported to map to chromosome 1, and the L genes that map to multiple loci. Transplantations between individual zebrafish that are matched at the U locus fail to consistently engraft suggesting that additional loci contribute to allogeneic recognition. Although two full-length zebrafish Z transcripts have been described, the genomic organization and diversity of these genes have not been reported. Herein we define ten Z genes on chromosomes 1 and 3 and on an unplaced genomic scaffold. We report that neither of the Z transcripts previously described match the current genome assembly and classify these transcripts as additional gene loci. We characterize full-length transcripts for 9 of these 12 genes. We demonstrate a high level of expression variation of the Z genes between individual zebrafish suggestive of haplotypic variation. We report low level sequence variation for individual Z genes between individual zebrafish reflecting a possible nonclassical function, although these molecules may still contribute to allogeneic recognition. Finally, we present a gene nomenclature system for the Z genes consistent with MHC nomenclature in other species and with the zebrafish gene nomenclature guidelines. 
,   Designed azobenzene-based enediyne-amino acid C(2)-symmetric hybrids have been synthesized and the role of amino acid linker in stabilizing the Z form has been demonstrated; DNA-binding and cleavage studies have established higher reactivity of the Z-isomers.
,   Three phenylbutanoid dimers, cis- and trans-1-(2,4,5-trimethoxy-E-styryl)-2-(2,4,5-trimethoxy-Z-styryl)cyclobutane and 1,2-bis(2,4,5-trimethoxy-Z-styryl)- cyclobutane, were isolated from the leaves of Alpinia flabellata Ridley, together with three known compounds (2,4,5-trimethoxybenzaldehyde, 2,4,5-trimethoxycinnamaldehyde and 3,5-dihydroxy-7,4'-dimethoxyflavone). The structures of these compounds were determined by spectroscopic analysis.
,   To evaluate the differences of wavefront aberrations under cycloplegic, scotopic and photopic conditions.otal of 174 eyes of 105 patients were measured using the wavefront sensor (WaveScan® 3.62) under different pupil conditions: cycloplegic 8.58 ± 0.54 mm (6.4 mm - 9.5 mm), scotopic 7.53 ± 0.69 mm (5.7 mm - 9.1 mm) and photopic 6.08 ± 1.14 mm (4.1 mm - 8.8 mm). The pupil diameter, standard Zernike coefficients, root mean square of higher-order aberrations and dominant aberrations were compared between cycloplegic and scotopic conditions, and between scotopic and photopic conditions. pupil diameter was 7.53 ± 0.69 mm under the scotopic condition, which reached the requirement of about 6.5 mm optical zone design in the wavefront-guided surgery and prevented measurement error due to the pupil centroid shift caused by mydriatics. Pharmacological pupil dilation induced increase of standard Zernike coefficients Z(3)(-3), Z(4)(0) and Z(5)(-5). The higher-order aberrations, third-order aberration, fourth-order aberration, fifth-order aberration, sixth-order aberration, and spherical aberration increased statistically significantly, compared to the scotopic condition (P<0.010). When the scotopic condition shifted to the photopic condition, the standard Zernike coefficients Z(4)(0), Z(4)(2), Z(6)(-4), Z(6)(-2), Z(6)(2) decreased and all the higher-order aberrations decreased statistically significantly (P<0.010), demonstrating that accommodative miosis can significantly improve vision under the photopic condition. Under the three conditions, the vertical coma aberration appears the most frequently within the dominant aberrations without significant effect by pupil size variance, and the proportion of spherical aberrations decreased with the decrease of the pupil size. wavefront aberrations are significantly different under cycloplegic, scotopic and photopic conditions. Using the wavefront sensor (VISX WaveScan) to measure scotopic wavefront aberrations is feasible for the wavefront-guided refractive surgery.
,   To examine the temporal and dose-related effects of glucocorticoids (GCs) on body mass index (BMI) in children with rheumatic diseases.ldren initiating GCs for a rheumatic disease (n = 130) were assessed every 3 months for 18 months. BMI, weight, and height Z score trajectories were described according to GC starting dosage in prednisone equivalents: high (≥1.0 mg/kg/day), low (<0.2 mg/kg/day to a maximum of 7.5 mg/day), and moderate (between high and low) dosage. The impact of GC dosing, underlying diagnosis, pubertal status, physical activity, and disease activity on BMI Z scores and on percent body fat was assessed with longitudinal mixed-effects growth curve models. GC starting dose was high in 59% and moderate in 39% of patients. The peak BMI Z score was +1.29 at 4 months with high-dose GCs and +0.69 at 4.2 months with moderate-dose GCs (P < 0.001). Overall, 50% (95% confidence interval 41-59%) of the children returned to within +0.25 SD of their baseline BMI Z score. Oral GC dose over the preceding 3 months was the most significant determinant of BMI Z score and percent body fat. The proportion of days in receipt of GCs, disease activity, and a diagnosis of systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis were also associated with BMI Z scores. The correlation between changes in BMI and changes in percent body fat was 0.09.children with rheumatic diseases starting moderate and high doses of GCs, BMI Z scores peaked at 4 months, and only half returned to within +0.25 SD of their baseline BMI Z score after 18 months.
,   A new chemical component, cis-Z,Z'-3a.7a',7a.3a'-dihydroxyligustilide, was isolated from Angelica sinensis and its structure elucidated from its NMR and MS spectra and confirmed by X-ray single crystal diffraction analysis. We also explored the antioxidative properties of cis-Z,Z'-3a.7a',7a.3a'-dihydroxyligustilide on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) against injuries induced by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) using an MTT assay and flow cytometry analysis. In addition, the activities of  superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined. We found that cis-Z,Z'-3a.7a',7a.3a'-dihydroxyligustilide increased the viability of HUVECs injured by H(2)O(2) in a dose-dependent manner, reduced the apoptosis of HUVEC, and enhanced HUVEC proliferation. Our results demonstrated the remarkable in vitro antioxidative activities of this compound, indicating that it could be a potential antioxidant with protective effects against H(2)O(2)-induced HUVEC injuries.
,   The Z-scheme is considered in the context of personal recollections of events during the time that it was conceived and an evaluation of its enduring importance.
,   A regioselective 1,4-hydroiodination of dienyl alcohols has been developed using trimethylsilyl iodide as Lewis acid and iodide source. A range of homoallylic alcohols containing a multisubstituted Z-alkene was synthesized with good to excellent configurational control. The approach was applied in sequential hydroiodination/Prins cyclization to afford multisubstituted tetrahydropyrans diastereoselectively. 
,   To establish formulae for the calculation of fetal cardiovascular Z-scores based on femur length (FL), and to compare cardiovascular parameters between fetuses with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) and normal fetuses in order to assess their value for the prenatal diagnosis of TOF.otal of 329 normal fetuses and 43 fetuses with TOF were included in this study. Eleven cardiovascular dimensions were measured offline after cardiac spatiotemporal image correlation volume acquisition. Normal cardiovascular Z-score formulae were constructed for these measurements based on FL by performing a standard regression analysis followed by weighted regression of absolute residual values. The following ratios were calculated: right ventricular internal diameter (RVID) to left ventricular internal diameter (LVID) and pulmonary artery diameter (PA) to aorta diameter (Ao). Subsequently, all parameters were compared between the normal and TOF groups.mulae for calculating Z-scores for the 11 cardiovascular dimensions were constructed. FL was significantly correlated with all cardiovascular dimensions assessed (r = 0.816-0.944, P < 0.001 for all). RVID, Ao, PA, aortic arch isthmus, and ductus arteriosus mean Z-scores and PA/Ao ratio were statistically significantly different between normal fetuses and those with TOF. In the TOF group, all Ao Z-scores (43/43) were > + 2 and all PA/Ao ratios (43/43) were below the normal 95% range. However, only 48.8% (21/43) of the PA Z-scores were < -2. cardiovascular Z-score formulae developed can provide a quantitative basis for the prenatal diagnosis of TOF. Aortic dilatation and abnormal PA/Ao ratio may be markers for the antenatal diagnosis of TOF.
,   Mutant Z α1-antitrypsin (E342K) accumulates as polymers within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of hepatocytes predisposing to liver disease, whereas low levels of circulating Z α1-antitrypsin lead to emphysema by loss of inhibition of neutrophil elastase. The ideal therapy should prevent polymer formation while preserving inhibitory activity. Here we used mAb technology to identify interactors with Z α1-antitrypsin that comply with both requirements. We report the generation of an mAb (4B12) that blocked α1-antitrypsin polymerization in vitro at a 1:1 molar ratio, causing a small increase of the stoichiometry of inhibition for neutrophil elastase. A single-chain variable fragment (scFv) intrabody was generated based on the sequence of mAb4B12. The expression of scFv4B12 within the ER (scFv4B12KDEL) and along the secretory pathway (scFv4B12) reduced the intracellular polymerization of Z α1-antitrypsin by 60%. The scFv4B12 intrabody also increased the secretion of Z α1-antitrypsin that retained inhibitory activity against neutrophil elastase. MAb4B12 recognized a discontinuous epitope probably located in the region of helices A/C/G/H/I and seems to act by altering protein dynamics rather than binding preferentially to the native state. This novel approach could reveal new target sites for small-molecule intervention that may block the transition to aberrant polymers without compromising the inhibitory activity of Z α1-antitrypsin.-Ordóñez, A., Pérez, J., Tan, L., Dickens, J. A., Motamedi-Shad, N., Irving, J. A., Haq, I., Ekeowa, U., Marciniak, S. J., Miranda, E., Lomas, D. A. A single-chain variable fragment intrabody prevents intracellular polymerization of Z α1-antitrypsin while allowing its antiproteinase activity. 
,   The Z-fraction has been defined operationally as a ligand-binding (bilirubin sulfobromophthalein) portion of rat hepatic cytosol that elutes in the molecular weight region of 10(4) daltons after gel filtration. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoreses under different conditions, as well as binding stoichiometry, confirm the anticipated heterogeneity of the Z-fraction. Three factors have contributed to the subsequent resolution of the Z-fraction and partial characterization of that protein within the fraction with ligand-binding properties (Z-protein): (1) the use of hexachlorophene as ligand; (2) the inclusion of glycerol, 20%, during isolation to prevent aggregation and loss of binding-activity; and (3) the development of a charcoal binding assay. Upon ion exchange chromatography, the Z-fraction resolves into a group of distinct protein components and an unidentified material with a high 260/280 nm absorbancy ratio. The one protein component with binding capacity exhibits homogeneity on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (11% gel, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 121, 404-427, 1964; and 15% gel with SDS). With use of the charcoal method, apparent dissociation constants for the interaction between Z-protein and hexachlorophene, bilirubin and L-thyroxine, were found to be 20, 50, and 350 muM, respectively. The Scatchard plot generated upon extrapolation an n value of 1.0 with assumption of a molecular weight for Z-protein of 10(4) daltons.
,   Nisin, a polypeptide with antimicrobial properties, is known as a natural preservative. It is used in various foods, including dairy products. This study validated a novel procedure using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for the determination of nisin A and nisin Z in cow milk. An extraction solution of 0.1 M acetate buffer containing 1 M NaCl (pH 2.0) and MeOH (1:1) was used to extract nisin A and nisin Z from milk samples. After the addition of extraction buffers, the samples were homogenized and centrifuged. The supernatant was filtered and injected for LC-MS/MS analysis. The linearity of the analytical method had a high correlation coefficient (r≥0.9987). The limits of quantitation of nisin A and nisin Z were approximately 12.9 and 10.9 µg/kg, respectively. The accuracy of the analytical method in milk ranged from 90.6 to 103.4% for nisin A and from 83.8 to 104.4% for nisin Z. The coefficient of variation values of intra- and interday in milk determined to be less than 5% in both nisin A and nisin Z. Because the proposed method has comparatively high recovery and low coefficient of variation, it seems appropriate for the determination of nisin A and nisin Z in milk samples. As the quantification of nisin A and nisin Z in milk samples by using LC-MS/MS has only been rarely reported until now, this study provides a meaningful technological advance for the dairy industry. 
,   Sulfoxides were first introduced to the allylation of N-acylhydrazones with allyltrichlorosilanes as effective neutral coordinate-organocatalysts (NCOs). Both high diastereo- and enantioselectivity were attained when optically active chiral sulfoxides were used. Asymmetric crotylations using (Z)- and (E)-crotyltrichlorosilanes showed a high level of stereospecificity (Z --> anti and E --> syn) with high enantioselectivity.
,   The kinetic resolution of Z and E olefins by [2+2] cycloaddition with ketenes allows the isolation of pure E olefin, as well as the synthesis of pure cis-cyclobutanones, starting from Z/E mixtures. A computational rationale for this kinetic difference is reported. The obtained difference of energy of activation matches with the experimental results. 
,   Growth in height was studied in 58 patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) followed for 4.9 +/- (SD) 2.8 years, who had never received steroids. Height measurements were converted to Height Z Scores. Height Z scores at first and at last visit were respectively 0.7 +/- 1 and 0.7 +/- 0.9 (NS) in pauciarticular, 0 +/- 1.6 and -0.55 +/- 1.6 (p = 0.045) in systemic, 0.29 +/- 0.8 and -0.4 +/- 1 (p = 0.0001) in polyarticular JRA patients. In systemic and polyarticular patients a significant negative relation was found between the duration of disease and the delta Height Z score (p = 0.0008) as well as between the sum of the periods of active disease and the delta Height Z score (p = 0.0001). The patients with functional class = 1 lost 0.01 +/- 0.19 Height Z score per year while those with functional class > or = 2 lost 0.16 +/- 0.13 Height Z score per year (p = 0.005). The loss of Height Z score in systemic and polyarticular subjects observed during pubertal age (-0.71 +/- 0.67 Height Z score) was significantly (p = 0.02) greater than in those observed before puberty (-0.1 +/- 0.72). The longer duration of disease, the higher degree of functional joint involvement, and the age of puberty appear to be risk factors for height growth impairment in systemic and polyarticular JRA.
,   This work demonstrates a green and efficient method to prepare 1,3-enynes via Pd(II)-catalyzed direct dehydrogenative olefination of terminal arylalkynes with unactived allylic ethers. Various terminal arylalkynes can participate in the reaction, stereoselectively affording the desired conjugated (Z)-1,3-enynes in moderate to good yields.
,   Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has many strains; however, it remains unclear whether a causal relationship exists between different regions and viral genetic variants in healthy persons. This study was designed to examine the relationship between EBV strains in tonsils and adenoids and peripheral blood lymphocytes of the same individuals using different measurements of EBV strain polymorphism. This study examined whether EBV contains two or three copies of a tandem repeat sequence in the first intron of the BZLF-1 gene. The genotype of the virus from P3HR-1, designated Z*, yielded a 415-bp product, and this was distinguished from the smaller, 386-bp product obtained with the B95-8 virus, designated the Z genotype. Simultaneous sequence infections with Z and Z* genotypes were also detected in one of the tonsils examined, suggesting that more than one strain or variant of EBV genotype may be present in a specimen from the same subject. Co-infection with Z and Z* was recognized in two subjects, so variation of the EBV gene may be seen in at least two different strains of EBV. It was seen that Z and Z* strain-infected cells are constantly in flux through lymph nodes and/or the blood stream in healthy persons; therefore, these results indicated that EBV genome variants probably show no specific tissue distribution.
,   [reaction: see text] Vilsmeier reagents give (Z)-1-aryl-1-haloalkenes from aryl ketones bearing an electron-donating substituent at the ortho- or para-position. These haloalkenes are intermediates in the Vilsmeier haloformylation of the aryl ketones. Another reaction mechanistic pathway is thus available in certain Vilsmeier haloformylations, in competition with the commonly accepted route by way of an enaminoketone.
,   Two new glycosyl phenylpropenoid acids, 4-O-beta-glucopyranosyloxy-(Z)-7-hydroxycinnamic acid (1) and 4-O-beta-glucopyranosyloxy-(Z)-8-hydroxycinnamic acid (2), besides lupeol and aghatisflavone, were isolated from the leaves of Caesalpinia pyramidalis.
,   Asymmetric [3,3]-sigmatropic aza-Claisen rearrangement of the (Z)-N-allyl-N,O-silylketene aminal of (3S,4E,alphaR)-1-benzyloxy-3-(N-propionyl-N-alpha-methylbenzylamino)hex-4-ene furnishes (2S,3R,4E,alphaR)-N-alpha-methylbenzyl-2,3-dimethyl-7-benzyloxyhept-4-enamide in > 92% d.e.; rearrangement of the diastereomeric (3R,4E,alphaR)-(Z)-N,O-silylketene aminal proceeds with low diastereoselectivity.
,   Antibody conjugates have been used in a variety of applications from immunoassays to drug conjugates. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that in order to maximize an antibody's antigen binding ability and to produce homogeneous antibody-conjugates, the conjugated molecule should be attached onto IgG site-specifically. We previously developed a facile method for the site-specific modification of full length, native IgGs by engineering a recombinant Protein Z that forms a covalent link to the Fc domain of IgG upon exposure to long wavelength UV light. To further improve the efficiency of Protein Z production and IgG conjugation, we constructed a panel of 13 different Protein Z variants with the UV-active amino acid benzoylphenylalanine (BPA) in different locations. By using this panel of Protein Z to cross-link a range of IgGs from different hosts, including human, mouse, and rat, we discovered two previously unknown Protein Z variants, L17BPA and K35BPA, that are capable of cross-linking many commonly used IgG isotypes with efficiencies ranging from 60% to 95% after only 1 h of UV exposure. When compared to existing site-specific methods, which often require cloning or enzymatic reactions, the Protein Z-based method described here, utilizing the L17BPA, K35BPA, and the previously described Q32BPA variants, represents a vastly more accessible and efficient approach that is compatible with nearly all native IgGs, thus making site-specific conjugation more accessible to the general research community. 
,   Trifluoromethylation of propargylic alcohols to provide (Z)-α-trifluoromethylated enones and β-unsubstituted α-trifluoromethylated enones proceeded with high yield and selectivity in the presence of CuI/Re2O7. The Z isomer was formed under kinetic control, though it is less stable than the E isomer in terms of steric repulsion.
,   A one-dimensional electron transport algorithm based on the ideas of invariant imbedding has been developed and applied to the problem of electron backscattering in electron dosimetry. Results have been compared with experimental and Monte Carlo results. Agreement appears to be reasonable at low incident energies (0.5 to 10 MeV) and low Z(Z < or = 65) materials.
,   In the past half century research efforts have defined a critical role for angiogenesis in tumor growth and metastasis. We previously reported that inhibition of a novel target, ENOX1, by a (Z)-2-benzylindol-3-ylmethylene) quinuclidin-3-ol, suppressed tumor angiogenesis. The present study was undertaken in order to establish structure-activity relationships for quinuclidine analogs. The angiogenesis inhibiting activity of a series of substituted (Z)-(±)-2-(N-benzylindol-3-ylmethylene)quinuclidin-3-ols (1a-1k), (Z)-2-benzylindol-3-ylmethylene)quinuclidin-3-ones (2a-2h), (Z)-(±)-2-(1H/N-methyl-indol-3-ylmethylene)quinuclidin-3-ols (3a-3b), and substituted (Z)-(±)-2-(N-benzenesulfonylindol-3-yl-methylene)quinuclidin-3-ols and their derivatives (4a-4d) that incorporate a variety of substituents in both the indole and N-benzyl moieties was evaluated using Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells (HUVECs) subjected to in vitro cell migration scratch assays, tubule formation in Matrigel, cell viability and proliferation assays. In total, 25 different analogs were evaluated. Based on in vitro cell migration scratch assays, eight analogs were identified as potent angiogenesis inhibitors at 10 μM, a concentration that was determined to be nontoxic by colony formation assay. In addition, this approach identified a potent antiangiogenic ENOX1 inhibitor, analog 4b.
,   We have studied the UV-vis absorption and chiroptical properties, binding affinity and photostability of a conjugated positively charged butadiyne-linked Zn(ii) porphyrin dimer bound to DNA sequence poly(dG-dC)2. Right-handed B-DNA, spermine-induced Z-DNA and Co(iii)-induced Z-DNA have been explored. Resonance light scattering (RLS) spectra showed formation of porphyrin aggregates in the presence of all DNA forms with the largest aggregates formed with B-DNA. The porphyrin dimer gave rise to induced bisignate circular dichroism (CD) signals in the presence of the left-handed Z-DNA conformations. On the other hand, the dimer stayed nearly chiroptically silent when complexed with the B-form of poly(dG-dC)2. Our results indicated that the conjugated Zn(ii) porphyrin dimer can be used as a sensor for the chiroptical detection of Z-DNA in the visible (400-500 nm) and near-infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum (700-800 nm). The helicity of DNA had little effect on the dimer binding affinities. The photostability of the porphyrin dimer complexed with any form of DNA was higher than that of the free molecule. The porphyrin dimer bound to Z-DNA exhibited slower photobleaching than the B-DNA dimer complex. 
,   The myofibrillar and cytoskeletal alterations observed in delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) caused by eccentric exercise are generally considered to represent damage. By contrast our recent immunohistochemical studies suggested that the alterations reflect myofibrillar remodeling (Yu and Thornell 2002; Yu et al. 2003). In the present study the same human muscle biopsies were further analyzed with transmission electron microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy. We show that the ultrastructural hallmarks of DOMS, Z-disc streaming, Z-disc smearing, and Z-disc disruption were present in the biopsies and were significantly more frequent in biopsies taken 2-3 days and 7-8 days after exercise than in those from controls and 1 h after exercise. Four main types of changes were observed: amorphous widened Z-discs, amorphous sarcomeres, double Z-discs, and supernumerary sarcomeres. We confirm by immunoelectron microscopy that the main Z-disc protein alpha-actinin is not present in Z-disc alterations or in the links of electron-dense material between Z-discs in longitudinal register. These alterations were related to an increase of F-actin and desmin, where F-actin was present within the strands of amorphous material. Desmin, on the other hand, was seen in less dense regions of the alterations. Our results strongly support that the myofibrillar and cytoskeletal alterations, considered to be the hallmarks of DOMS, reflect an adaptive remodeling of the myofibrils.
,   A new 4D space-time-wave number-frequency representation Z(x,t,k,f) is introduced. The Z(x,t,k,f) representation is used for processing 2D space-time signal collection issued from wave propagation along a 1D medium. This representation is an extension along the time dimension of the space-wave number-frequency representation. The Z(x,t,k,f) representation is obtained by short time-space 2D Fourier transforming the space-time collection. The Z(x,t,k,f) representation allows the characterization transient aspects of wave generation and propagation in both space and time dimensions. The Z(x,t,k,f) representation is used to experimentally investigate Lamb wave generation and propagation around a cylindrical shell (relative thickness is equal to 0.03) surrounded by water and excited by a pulse (0.1 micros duration with 1-5 MHz transducers). Three kinds of fluids have been used inside the shell: air, water, propanol. In all the cases, the Z(x,t,k,f) analysis clearly identify the reflected field on the insonified side of the shell and it allows the measurement of the local reflection coefficients R(x,t,k,f). The generation and the propagation of Lamb waves are also quantified. For the liquid filled shells, the multiple internal reflections are revealed by Z(x,t,k,f) analysis: the local transmission coefficients T(x,t,k,f) are also measured. When local matching conditions allows Lamb wave generation, the multiple regeneration of Lamb wave is observed. Based on these results, a link is establish toward the theoretical results obtained by steady state approach and Sommerfeld-Watson transform.
,   We sequenced and annotated genomes of two haloalkaliphilic Deltaproteobacteria, Geoalkalibacter ferrihydriticus Z-0531(T) (DSM 17813) and Geoalkalibacter subterraneus Red1(T) (DSM 23483). During assembly, we discovered that the DSMZ stock culture of G. subterraneus was contaminated. We reisolated G. subterraneus in axenic culture and redeposited it in DSMZ and JCM. 
,   It has been claimed that the aneurysm rate for Kawasaki disease (KD) patients in Japan is lower than in the U.S. However it has been difficult to compare coronary artery (CA) outcomes between the two countries because of different definitions for CA abnormalities. Therefore, we compared CA internal diameters between Japanese and U.S. KD patients using standard definitions and methods.retrospectively reviewed CA outcomes in 1082 KD patients from 2 centers in the U.S. and 3 centers in Japan and compared Z-max scores (maximum internal diameter for the left anterior descending or right coronary artery expressed as standard deviation units from the mean (Z-score) normalized for body surface area) obtained within 12 weeks after onset and calculated using two different regression equations from Canada (Dallaire) and Japan (Fuse). We defined a Z-max of < 2.5 as normal and a Z-max of ≥ 10 as giant aneurysm. median Z-max for the U.S. and Japanese subjects was 1.9 and 2.3 SD units, respectively (p < 0.001). There was no significant difference in rates of patients with Z-max ≥ 5.0 between the countries. In a multivariable model adjusting for age, sex, and treatment response, being Japanese was still associated with a higher Z-max score.viously reported differences in aneurysm rates between Japan and the U.S. likely resulted from use of different definitions and nomenclature. Adoption of Z-scores as a standard for reporting CA internal diameters will allow meaningful comparisons among different countries and will facilitate international, collaborative clinical trials.
,   The A alpha mating-type locus is one of four master regulatory loci controlling sexual development in Schizophyllum commune. The A alpha locus contains two homeobox genes, Y and Z, encoding two homeodomain-related proteins, Y and Z. Y and Z are each multiallelic genes. When haploid strains form fusion cells, only particular combinations of Y and Z alleles activate A alpha-regulated sexual development. The role of the putative homeodomain was examined in several Y and Z alleles by site-directed mutagenesis of regions critical to secondary structure and function of homeodomains. Mutations of the Z homeobox do not affect the function of Z proteins in A alpha-activated development, but mutations of Y homeoboxes destroy the ability of Y proteins to activate development. We conclude that only one of two A alpha homeodomain-related regulators relies upon the homeodomain motif to effect gene expression in sexual development. This conclusion affords a refinement of our working hypothesis for the mechanism by which A alpha proteins may regulate target gene expression. On the basis of our results with the Z protein, we speculate that the DNA-binding motifs of some transcriptional regulators may be lost or modified during evolution once these regulators have been recruited to participate in complexes with other DNA-binding proteins.
,   Predictions are obtained for T=0 and T=1 deuteron-transfer intensities between self-conjugate N=Z nuclei on the basis of a simplified interacting boson model which considers bosons without orbital angular momentum but with full spin-isospin structure. These transfer predictions can be correlated with nuclear binding energies in specific regions of the mass table.
,   Social ecological theories suggest that greater community alcohol availability and individual drinker characteristics should jointly affect drinking patterns and the use of drinking contexts. We assessed relationships of demographic and personality characteristics of individual drinkers and environmental characteristics at the city-level to measures of drinking patterns and use of drinking contexts.ti-level statistical analyses of archival and survey data from 50 cities in California, USA.ecological sample of 50 geographically distinct cities with populations from 50 000 to 500 000 people.eral population telephone survey of 8553 adults 18 years of age and older stratified by cities.hival data on city-level alcohol outlet densities were combined with individual survey data identifying community conditions, individual demographic and psychosocial characteristics, frequencies of use of drinking contexts and drinking patterns.ater on-premise outlet densities were related to greater drinking frequencies (b = 2.9671, z = 4.688, P < 0.001) and volumes (b = 0.6274, z = 3.394, P < 0.001) and use of on-premises drinking places (bars, b = 0.3340, z = 2.645, P < 0.006 and restaurants, b = 0.1712, z = 2.770, P = 0.005). Individual demographic and personality characteristics were related to drinking and use of drinking contexts. For example, greater impulsivity was related to greater drinking frequencies (b = 0.2001, z = 2.088, P = 0.023) and logged quantities (b = 0.0151, z = 2.009, P = 0.026) and proportionately more drinking at bars (b = 0.0332, z = 2.016, P = 0.026) and parties (b = 0.1712, z = 2.770, P = 0.004).munity availability of alcohol and individual drinker characteristics appear to act jointly to affect drinking levels and use of drinking contexts. These effects may increase risks related to drinking in some contexts (e.g. bars) much more than others (e.g. at friends' or relatives' homes).
,   Although fall prevention studies for the elderly have been reported, there is a paucity of work summarizing the effectiveness of these interventions. research question that guided this study was: 'What are the effects of fall prevention programs on the proportion of falls in the elderly?"a-analysis was employed to summarize findings of intervention studies of fall prevention in the elderly involving a comparison group and a quantifiable outcome. Studies were reviewed by two of the authors with the eligibility criteria in mind. Studies were then coded and an inter-rater reliability check was performed. overall mean weighted effect size for the 12 studies included in the meta-analysis was .0779 (Z = 5.03, p < .001). For fall prevention intervention types, exercise alone had a mean weighted effect size of .0220 (Z = .5303, p > .5), exercise and risk modification had a mean weighted effect size of .0687 (Z = 3.41, p < .001), and comprehensive risk assessment intervention studies had an effect size of .1231 (Z = 3.97, p < .001). The mean weighted effect size size for community-based studies was .0972 (Z = 5.37, p < .001) and for institution-based studies was .0237 (Z = .7822, p = .22). Time to outcome measure analyses revealed that the mean weighted effect size for studies measuring proportion of falls at 12 months was .0905 (Z = 5.43, p < .001), and those measuring at four months or less was -.0972 (Z = -.005, p > .50). results of this meta-analysis indicate that there was a 4% decrease in the rate of falls for individuals who were in the treatment groups receiving various fall prevention interventions. Additional intervention studies need to be conducted in the elderly population with a goal of preventing falls.
,   To separately measure the optical densities of lutein (L) and zeaxanthin (Z) in the human retina in vivo. L and Z are the basic constituents of the macular pigment (MP).ctral fundus reflectance was measured in 23 subjects (group 1) at 0 degrees , 1 degrees , 2 degrees , 4 degrees , and 8 degrees eccentricity with a modified macular pigment reflectometer. A model generated the optical densities of L (LOD) and Z (ZOD), using their slightly different absorption spectra. Three other subjects (group 2) took 20 mg/d zeaxanthin for 6 months; they were measured approximately monthly for 18 months.n LOD for group 1 at the central fovea was 0.200 +/- 0.061 (range, 0.085-0.305), mean ZOD was 0.494 +/- 0.169 (range, 0.169-0.806), resulting in a mean Z fraction [ZOD/(LOD + ZOD)] of 0.71. ZOD dropped faster toward the periphery than LOD, measuring 0.044 and 0.010 (Z fraction 0.18) at 8 degrees , respectively. Zeaxanthin supplementation in group 2 caused a significant increase in ZOD, and no or minor changes in LOD. ZOD further increased over a 10-month period after supplementation in all subjects. and ZOD had different spatial profiles that, apart from scaling factors, showed similarity to in vitro literature data. Supplementation with Z caused LOD to decrease and ZOD to increase. These results strongly suggest that the optical densities of L and Z can be assessed in vivo by fundus reflectometry, opening new ways of investigating the putative protective roles of L and Z in retinal disease.
,   Photochromism In their Full Paper on page 16492 ff, A. M. Brouwer, P. Saalfrank, S. Hecht, D. Bléger, and co-workers present the design and synthesis of ortho-fluoroazobenzene visible light switches together with a detailed analysis of their outstanding properties, with a particular emphasis on the remarkable thermal stability of the Z isomers. 
,   A method to simultaneously image both the absorption and the self-emission of an imploding inertial confinement fusion plasma has been demonstrated on the OMEGA Laser System. The technique involves the use of a high-Z backlighter, half of which is covered with a low-Z material, and a high-speed x-ray framing camera aligned to capture images backlit by this masked backlighter. Two strips of the four-strip framing camera record images backlit by the high-Z portion of the backlighter, while the other two strips record images aligned with the low-Z portion of the backlighter. The emission from the low-Z material is effectively eliminated by a high-Z filter positioned in front of the framing camera, limiting the detected backlighter emission to that of the principal emission line of the high-Z material. As a result, half of the images are of self-emission from the plasma and the other half are of self-emission plus the backlighter. The advantage of this technique is that the self-emission simultaneous with backlighter absorption is independently measured from a nearby direction. The absorption occurs only in the high-Z backlit frames and is either spatially separated from the emission or the self-emission is suppressed by filtering, or by using a backlighter much brighter than the self-emission, or by subtraction. The masked-backlighter technique has been used on the OMEGA Laser System to simultaneously measure the emission profiles and the absorption profiles of polar-driven implosions. 
,   The chemical and enzymatic dissociation of the specific antigen of Type Z Shigella paradysenteriae has been studied. The chemical, toxic, and serological properties of the products of degradation have been investigated. The nature of the toxic component has been discussed.
,   Cytochrome c(z) is found in green sulfur photosynthetic bacteria, and is considered to be the only electron donor to the special pair P840 of the reaction center. It consists of an N-terminal transmembrane domain and a C-terminal soluble domain that binds a single heme group. Large scale expression of the C-terminal functional domain of the cytochrome c(z) (C-cyt c(z)) from the thermophilic bacterium Chlorobium tepidum has been achieved using the Escherichia coli expression system. The C-cyt c(z) expressed has been highly purified, and is stable at room temperature over 10 days of incubation for both reduced and oxidized forms. Spectroscopic measurements indicate that the heme iron in C-cyt c(z) is in a low-spin state and this does not change with the redox state. (1)H-NMR spectra of the oxidized C-cyt c(z) exhibited unusually large paramagnetic chemical shifts for the heme methyl protons in comparison with those of other Class I ferric cytochromes c. Differences in the (1)H-NMR linewidth were observed for some resonances, indicating different dynamic environments for these protons. Crystals of the oxidized C-cyt c(z) were obtained using ammonium sulfate as a precipitant. The crystals diffracted X-rays to a maximum resolution of 1.2 A, and the diffraction data were collected to 1.3 A resolution.
,   The role of dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S) in assessing the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in patients with suspected insufficiency is uncertain. objective of the study was to prospectively evaluate the diagnostic value of DHEA-S on HPA function in consecutive patients with suspected HPA insufficiency with and without pituitary lesions at a tertiary referral center.70 consecutive patients, insulin tolerance test was accompanied by measurement of basal DHEA-S. Assessment of HPA axis was based on peak cortisol response in insulin tolerance test (normal > or = 550 nmol/liter). To account for the age and gender dependency of DHEA-S, a z-score was calculated using age- and gender-specific reference values of the assay.ividuals with HPA insufficiency had significantly lower z-scores than those with normal HPA function (-1.66 vs. -0.62, P < 0.0001). In individuals up to 30 yr of age, a z-score of -2.0 had 100% sensitivity and specificity regarding HPA function [area under receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve 1.00], whereas z-scores proved less useful in older individuals. In individuals with pituitary macroadenoma, a z-score below -2.0 had 100% specificity to predict HPA insufficiency (area under ROC curve 0.82). In the absence of a pituitary adenoma, the diagnostic value of the z-score was reduced (area under ROC curve 0.71).ividuals with HPA insufficiency have lower z-scores for DHEA-S than those with normal HPA function. There is evidence that a z-score could be of diagnostic value in assessing HPA integrity, especially in younger patients and patients with pituitary macroadenoma, but further studies are needed to consolidate these findings.
,   Multiply charged iron atoms up to Fe(6+) with few carbon ions were produced from ferrocene under intense femtosecond laser fields. The production of Fe(4+) and Fe(5+) from ferrocene requires much less laser intensity than theoretically expected for iron atoms. The dissociation of ferrocene and the generation mechanism of multiply charged iron atoms are discussed.
,     We conducted a retrospective cohort study to investigate the efficacy of combination therapy with radiotherapy (RT) and zoledronic acid for bone metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Additionally, we investigated the efficacy of zoledronic acid for non-irradiated bone metastases.his study consisted of 31 patients who had received RT for bone metastases. Twelve of these patients with 23 sites of bone metastases were also treated with zoledronic acid (Z group). In the Z group, 14 sites received RT and nine sites did not. Nineteen patients with 38 sites of bone metastases were not treated with zoledronic acid (non-Z group). In the non-Z group, 22 sites received RT and 16 did not. We compared survival, pain response, time to pain progression, radiographic response, time to radiographic progression, and safety between groups.hile pain response rates were similar between the two groups, time to pain progression rates of irradiated and non-irradiated bone metastases was significantly lower in the Z (0% and 20% at 6 months, respectively) than in the non-Z group (34% and 66% at 6 months, respectively) (P = 0.045 and P = 0.005). Further, while radiographic response rates were similar between the two groups, time to radiographic progression rate of non-irradiated bone metastases was significantly lower in the Z (29% at 3 months) than in the non-Z group (91% at 3 months) (P = 0.009). No significant side-effects were documented.oledronic acid delayed the pain progression of both irradiated and non-irradiated bone metastases and the radiographic progression of non-irradiated bone metastases from HCC.
,   cis-jasmone, or (Z)-jasmone, is well known as a component of plant volatiles, and its release can be induced by damage, for example during insect herbivory. Using the olfactory system of the lettuce aphid to investigate volatiles from plants avoided by this insect, (Z)-jasmone was found to be electrophysiologically active and also to be repellent in laboratory choice tests. In field studies, repellency from traps was demonstrated for the damson-hop aphid, and with cereal aphids numbers were reduced in plots of winter wheat treated with (Z)-jasmone. In contrast, attractant activity was found in laboratory and wind tunnel tests for insects acting antagonistically to aphids, namely the seven-spot ladybird and an aphid parasitoid. When applied in the vapor phase to intact bean plants, (Z)-jasmone induced the production of volatile compounds, including the monoterpene (E)-beta-ocimene, which affect plant defense, for example by stimulating the activity of parasitic insects. These plants were more attractive to the aphid parasitoid in the wind tunnel when tested 48 h after exposure to (Z)-jasmone had ceased. This possible signaling role of (Z)-jasmone is qualitatively different from that of the biosynthetically related methyl jasmonate and gives a long-lasting effect after removal of the stimulus. Differential display was used to compare mRNA populations in bean leaves exposed to the vapor of (Z)-jasmone and methyl jasmonate. One differentially displayed fragment was cloned and shown by Northern blotting to be up-regulated in leaf tissue by (Z)-jasmone. This sequence was identified by homology as being derived from a gene encoding an alpha-tubulin isoform.
,   Two isomers of a multifunctional π-expanded macrocyclic oligothiophene 8-mer, E,E-1 and Z,Z-1, were synthesized using a McMurry coupling of a dialdehyde composed of four 2,5-thienylene and three ethynylene units under high dilution conditions. On the other hand, cyclo[8](2,5-thienylene-ethynylene) 2 was synthesized by intramolecular Sonogashira cyclization of ethynyl bromide 5. From STM measurements, both E,E-1 and Z,Z-1 formed self-assembled monolayers at the solid-liquid interface to produce porous networks, and from X-ray analyses of E,E-1 and 2, both compounds had a round shape with a honeycomb stacked structure. E,E-1 formed various fibrous polymorphs due to nanophase separation of the macrorings. E,E-1 and Z,Z-1 in solution exhibited photochromism upon irradiation with visible and UV light, respectively, and this photoisomerization was confirmed by using STM. Furthermore, amorphous films of Z,Z-1 and E,E-1 showed photoisomerization, although single crystals, fibers, and square tubes of E,E-1 remained unchanged under similar conditions. E,E-1 with a 12.5-14.7 Å inner cavity incorporated fullerene C60 in the cavity in solution and the solid state to produce a Saturn-like complex, whose structure was determined by X-ray analysis. 2 also formed a Saturn-like complex with C60 in the solid state. These Saturn-like complexes are stabilized by van der Waals interactions between the sulfur atoms of 8-mer and C60. The complexes exhibited charge-transfer interactions in the solid state. Like E,E-1, Saturn-like complex E,E-1⊃C60 formed small cube and fiber structures depending on the solvent used, whereas those of Saturn-like complex 2⊃C60 were limited due to the rigidity of the macroring of 2. 
,   The adsorption of toluene (TOL) as a target volatile organic compound has been studied experimentally and modelled on various hydrophobic zeolites: Faujasite (FAU), ZSM-5 (Z) and Mordenite (MOR). The influence of the nature of the compensating cation (H(+) or Na(+)) has also been investigated for ZSM-5 zeolite, which is known to possess three kinds of adsorption sites (sinusoidal channels, straight channels and intersections). Type I isotherms observed on FAU, Na-Z and MOR fitted well with the Langmuir model. A deviation from a type I isotherm was observed for H-Z, because of the structure of this zeolite. The Successive Langmuir Model was more successful to fit the 'bump' of the experimental curve than the Double Langmuir. Classical shapes were found for MOR, FAU and Na-Z breakthrough curves that were fitted with good accuracy using the Linear Driving Force (LDF) approximation. In the case of H-Z, a change of profile was observed during the dynamic adsorption and the differences seen between the Na-Z and H-Z behaviours were explained by the strong interactions between Na(+) and adsorbed TOL at the intersection sites. The Na(+) cations prevented reorientation of TOL molecules at the intersection and thereby avoided the filling of the sinusoidal channel segments. Thus, a specific model was developed for fitting the breakthrough curve of H-Z. The model developed took into account these two types of adsorption sites with the overall uptake for each site being given by an LDF approximation. 
,   A new efficient method for the synthesis of geometrically pure (E)-alkenes from (Z)-alkenes is described. The reaction of aryl- or alkyl-substituted (Z)-alkenes with tributyltin hydride and triethylamine in the presence of a catalytic amount of palladium acetate afforded the corresponding (E)-alkenes in good yields.
,   Studies on the transfer into the fetus and the milk were performed after administration of 14C-Z-103 and 65Zn-Z-103 (catena-(S)-[mu-[N alpha-(3-aminopropionyl)histidinato(2-)-N1,N2,O:N tau]- zinc], CAS 107667-60-7) to rats. After oral administration of 14C-Z-103 to pregnant rats, the transfer of radioactivity to the fetus was studied by means of whole body autoradiography (ARG) and measurement of radioactivity in the fetus. The concentration of radioactivity in the fetus was approximately the same as those in the blood and the placenta of the maternal animal. The transfer of radioactivity into the milk was demonstrated after administration of 14C-Z-103 to lactating rats. Radioactivity in the fetus and milk are considered to be due to metabolites of L-carnosine of Z-103, such as amino acid or protein. The distribution of radioactivity in the fetus was also observed after administration of 65Zn-Z-103 to pregnant rats. However, after administration of non-radioactive Z-103 to pregnant rats, the zinc level in the fetus was found to be almost the same level as that in the fetus of the untreated rats. The transfer of radioactivity to the milk was studied after administration of 65Zn-Z-103 to the lactating rats, and it was seen that the concentration of radioactive zinc in the milk was much lower than the endogenous level of zinc in the milk at any of the time points investigated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
,   Ab initio calculations were performed on complexes of ZH4 (+) (Z=N, P, As) and their fluoro derivatives, ZFH3 (+) and ZF4 (+) , with a HCN (or LiCN) molecule acting as the Lewis base through the nitrogen electronegative center. It was found that the complexes are linked by the ZH⋅⋅⋅N hydrogen bond or another type of noncovalent interaction in which the tetravalent heavy atom of the cation acts as the Lewis acid center, that is, when the Z⋅⋅⋅N link exists, which may be classified as the σ-hole bond. The formation of the latter interaction is usually preferable to the formation of the corresponding hydrogen bond. The Z⋅⋅⋅N interaction may be also considered as the preliminary stage of the SN 2 reaction. This is supported by the observation that for a short Z⋅⋅⋅N contact, the corresponding complex geometry coincides with the trigonal-bipyramidal geometry typical for the transition state of the SN 2 reaction. The Z⋅⋅⋅N interaction for some of complexes analyzed here possesses characteristics typical for covalent bonds. Numerous interrelations between geometrical, topological and energetic parameters are discussed. The natural bond orbital method as well as the Quantum Theory of "Atoms in Molecules" is applied to characterize interactions in the analyzed complexes. The experimental evidences of the existence of these interactions, based on the Cambridge Structure Database search, are also presented. In addition, it is justified that mechanisms of the formation of the Z⋅⋅⋅N interactions are similar to the processes occurring for the other noncovalent links. The formation of Z⋅⋅⋅N interaction as well as of other interactions may be explained with the use of the σ-hole concept. 
,   Epidemiological studies have suggested that there are many risk factors associated with breast cancer. Silencing tumor suppressor genes through epigenetic alterations play critical roles in breast cancer initiation, promotion and progression. As a growth promoter, Zeranol (Z) has been approved by the FDA and is widely used to enhance the growth of beef cattle in the United States. However, the safety of Z use as a growth promoter is still under debate. In order to provide more evidence to clarify this critical health issue, the current study investigated the effect of Z on the proliferation of primary cultured human normal and cancerous breast epithelial cells (PCHNBECs and PCHBCECs, respectively) isolated from the same patient using MTS assay, RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. We also conducted an investigation regarding the mechanisms that might be involved. Our results show that Z is more potent to stimulate PCHBCEC growth than PCHNBEC growth. The stimulatory effects of Z on PCHBCECs and PCHBCECs may be mediated by its down-regulating expression of the tumor suppressor gene p53 at the mRNA and protein levels. Further investigation showed that the expression of DNA methylatransferase 1 mRNA and protein levels is up-regulated by treatment with Z in PCHBCECs as compared to PCHNBECs, which suggests a role of Z in epigenetic modification involved in the regulation of p53 gene expression in PCHBCECs. Our experimental results imply the potentially adverse health effect of Z in breast cancer development. Further study is continuing in our laboratory.
,   The tea weevil, Myllocerinus aurolineatus (Voss) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), is a leaf-feeding pest of Camellia sinensis (O.Ktze.) with aggregative behaviors that can seriously reduce tea yield and quality. Although herbivore-induced host plant volatiles have been shown to attract conspecific individuals of some beetle pests, especially members of the Chrysomelidae family, little is known about the volatiles emitted from tea plants infested by M. aurolineatus adults and their roles in mediating interactions between conspecifics. The results of behavioral bioassays revealed that volatile compounds emitted from tea plants infested by M. aurolineatus were attractive to conspecific weevils. Volatile analyses showed that infestations dramatically increased the emission of volatiles, (Z)-3-hexenal, (Z)-3-hexenol, (E)-beta-ocimene, linalool, phenylethyl alcohol, benzyl nitrile, indole, (E, E)-alpha-farnesene, (E)-nerolidol, and 31 other compounds. Among the induced volatiles, 12 chemicals, including gamma-terpinene, benzyl alcohol, (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate, myrcene, benzaldehyde, (Z)-3-hexenal, and (E, E)-alpha-farnesene, elicited antennal responses from both sexes of the herbivore, whereas (E)-beta-ocimene elicited antennal responses only from males. Using a Y-tube olfactometer, we found that six of the 13 chemicals, gamma-terpinene, benzyl alcohol, (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate, myrcene, benzaldehyde, and (Z)-3-hexenal, were attractive to both males and females; two chemicals, (E/Z)-beta-ocimene and (E, E)-alpha-farnesene, were attractive only to males; and four chemicals, (E)-4,8-dimethyl-1,3,7-nonatriene, phenylethyl alcohol, linalool, and (Z)-3-hexenol, were attractive only to females. The findings provide new insights into the interactions between tea plants and their herbivores, and may help scientists develop new strategies for controlling the herbivore.
,   The genetic locus for alpha-1-antitrypsin (alpha-AT) is highly polymorphic, but all protein variants are encoded by a single locus on chromosome 14. Periportal hepatocyte granules are described in association with chronic liver disease and the Z variant. A Z-specific point mutation in exon V of the alpha-AT gene, converting amino acid 342 from Glu to Lys, is thought to be responsible for the hepatocyte accumulation. We describe the use of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to amplify exon V of the alpha-AT gene and subsequent detection of the wild-type M- and Z-specific sequences by hybridisation to 32P-labelled-allele-specific oligonucleotides. We applied this technique to leucocyte DNA from 37 patients with suspected chronic liver disease, 25 of whom had hepatocyte alpha-AT inclusion granules on liver biopsy. All 25 were homozygous or heterozygous for the Z allele. One patient, phenotyped as PiS, was found to be PiSZ and another phenotyped as PiZ (presumed homozygous), was found to be a Z heterozygote. No Z allele was detected in any of the twelve patients without alpha-AT inclusion granules. This sensitive PCR technique could be used to assess the relative risk of chronic liver disease in PiZ heterozygotes and to determine whether individuals without the Z amino acid 342 substitution can developed periportal alpha-AT granules.
,   Case report describing the management of repeated perioperative bleeding probably due to Protein-Z-deficiency in a post-traumatic paraplegic patient.describe the difficulty in diagnosing this rare form of hypocoagulability and the monitoring and substitution concept during three elective surgical interventions.nal Cord Injury Center, Bergmannstrost, Halle, Germany.9-year-old male suffering from a post-traumatic paraplegia sub Th8 (ASIA-A) since childhood had experienced two life-threatening intraoperative bleeding incidents before finally Protein-Z-deficiency as the underlying coagulation disorder was diagnosed. After substitution of 2000 IE PPSB (Beriplex P/N) a repeatedly postponed implantation of a sphincter-externus (Brindley-) stimulator could be performed without bleeding complications, and this was also true for two additional urological interventions 1 year later. Protein-Z levels were monitored before, during and after the operations. The preoperative application of between 1000 and 2000 IE PPSB was safe and sufficient to raise the patients' plasma Protein-Z level to almost normal and so prevent excessive intraoperative blood loss.case of repeated bleeding tendency of unknown origin it is mandatory to look for rare causes of hypocoagulability such as Protein-Z-deficiency. We developed a substitution concept using a plasma concentrate with guaranteed Protein-Z amount (PPSB) allowing the safe performance of elective surgical interventions.
,   We studied the effect of dietary sodium restriction (3 weeks) and high potassium intake (7 days) on transcriptional regulation of cytochrome P-450 cholesterol side chain cleavage (P-450 scc) and adrenodoxin (Adx) in rat adrenal glands. Northern blotting analysis demonstrated that both treatments markedly increased P-450scc and Adx mRNA levels in the zona glomerulosa (Z-G) and the zona fasciculata-reticularis (Z-F-R) compared with controls. The Z-G appears to be more sensitive to variations in electrolytes than does the Z-F-R. The low sodium diet provoked a 2.9-fold increase in P-450scc mRNA level in the Z-G compared to 2.1-fold in the Z-F-R, whereas Adx mRNA levels were enhanced 2.2- and 1.7-fold respectively in these two zones. Restriction of sodium intake provoked significant increases in plasma ACTH, aldosterone and corticosteroids compared with controls. In the Z-G of KCl-loaded rats, we found a 1.6-fold increase in P-450scc and a 2.1-fold increase in Adx mRNA levels, and in the Z-F-R there was a 1.7- and 1.8-fold enhancement. There were no changes in beta-actin mRNA levels upon dietary treatments. These results thus indicate that both sodium depletion and high potassium intake in rats could act at the transcriptional level of P-450scc and Adx, two components of a rate-limiting step in steroidogenesis leading to aldosterone production. In addition, the elevation in plasma ACTH level in response to Na+ restriction suggests a possible involvement of ACTH in the response of the adrenal glands to sodium depletion.
,   There has been concern over declining bipolar (BP) impedance (Z) in aging polyurethane (PU) cardiac pacing leads. Subsequently, a prospective study was conducted comparing BP Z, threshold (Th), and R-wave sensing amplitude of 55D PU-insulated (Model 4024, Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA) and silicone-insulated (Model 5024) leads.s study was initiated by The Iowa Heart Center. Patients with Model 4024 (N = 162) or 5024 (N = 120) pacing leads with at least 6 years implant time were enrolled and followed for an additional 5 years.re was a significant drop in the mean BP Z for the Model 4024 population, between enrollment (6 years) and the final endpoint (11 years), which was in contrast to the Model 5024 which did not see a significant drop in its mean BP Z for this same period. The trend difference seen in the means between the two models was statistically significant (P < 0.0001). In addition, a statistically significant relationship was found between dropping BP Z and rising Th (P < 0.0001). The analysis showed that if BP Z dropped below 200 ohms, the probability of having a >3X increase over baseline, in Th at 2.5 V, increases from approximately 3-7% to as high as 30%.ignificant drop in BP Z observed in the PU-insulated Model 4024 lead was not present in the silicone-insulated Model 5024 lead. The statistically significant relationship between dropping BP Z and rising Th helps to understand how to better manage patients with aging leads.
,   An asymmetric synthesis of the diterpenoid 17-deoxyprovidencin is described. Key steps include an aldol addition, a base-catalyzed Wipf-type furan formation, a Z-selective ring-closing metathesis for macrocyclization, a photochemical E/Z isomerization to a highly strained and conformationally restricted ring system, and the stereoselective formation of two epoxides on the ring. 
,   The chemical shift of the carboxylate carbon of Z-tryptophan is increased from 179.85 to 182.82 ppm and 182.87 ppm on binding to thermolysin and stromelysin-1 respectively. The chemical shift of Z-phenylalanine is also increased from 179.5 ppm to 182.9 ppm on binding to thermolysin. From pH studies we conclude that the pK(a) of the inhibitor carboxylate group is lowered by at least 1.5 pK(a) units when it binds to either enzyme. The signal at ~183 ppm is no longer observed when the active site zinc atom of thermolysin or stromelysin-1 is replaced by cobalt. We estimate that the distance of the carboxylate carbon of Z-[1-(13)C]-L-tryptophan is ≤3.71Å from the active site cobalt atom of thermolysin. We conclude that the side chain of Z-[1-(13)C]-L-tryptophan is not bound in the S(2)' subsite of thermolysin. As the chemical shifts of the carboxylate carbons of the bound inhibitors are all ~183 ppm we conclude that they are all bound in a similar way most probably with the inhibitor carboxylate group directly coordinated to the active site zinc atom. Our spectrophotometric results confirm that the active site zinc atom is tetrahedrally coordinated when the inhibitors Z-tryptophan or Z-phenylalanine are bound to thermolysin.
,   When correlations are estimated by maximum likelihood method from the same sample, Fisher's z transformations of the correlations (as well as the sample correlations themselves) are shown to be asymptotically distributed as multivariate normal with appropriate mean and dispersion matrix.
,   Diabetic patients (n = 23) with chronic renal failure (CRF) accumulate the creatinine (Cr) oxidative metabolites creatol (CTL) and methylguanidine (MG; a uremic toxin) in their sera. Analysis of serum CTL, a key intermediate in mammalian Cr catabolism into MG, is shown to offer some useful diagnostic information on CRF, especially in the determination of an initial stage of pathological renal failure. The sera of all diabetic (n = 23) and nondiabetic (n = 20) patients with CRF (s-Cr > 1.25 mg/dl) contained s-CTL (> 2 micrograms/dl), whereas those from normal subjects (n = 18) and diabetic patients (n = 18) without CRF contained no detectable s-CTL. A similar accumulation of s-MG was observed, but only when s-Cr was higher than 2.0 mg/dl. Although each s-CTL (Y: microgram/dl, Y': mol/l) and s-MG level (Z: microgram/dl, Z': mol/l) is highly correlated with s-Cr (X: mg/dl, X': mol/l) in a normal equation, Y or Z = AX + B, an alternative correlation in a second-order equation, Y or Z = alpha X2 + beta X, could also fit well. Since the quadratic equation can be convertible to Y/X or Z/X = alpha X + beta [Y'/X' or Z'/X' = alpha' X+ beta'] and active oxygen species, especially hydroxyl radicals, convert Cr into CTL, Y/X, Y'/X', Z/X and Z'/X' values which might be a kind of indices for oxygen stress (oxidative stress) increased in proportion to the increased severity of CRF in such patients. Although its meaning and interpretation are still debatable, diabetic CRF patients had a significantly higher alpha' value (2.2) than that (0.89) of nondiabetic CRF patients. All serum values for Cr, CTL and MG were measured with HPLC.
,   Exposure of tertiary thioamides to (E)-1-hexenyl(phenyl)-lambda 3-iodane results in vinylic SN2 reaction to give the inverted (Z)-S-vinylthioimidonium salts, which under alkaline hydrolysis (Na2CO3 or K2CO3) selectively afford amides, while (Z)-S-vinyl thioesters are obtained in high yields via the hydrolysis under acidic conditions (HCl).
,   The N-methoxy-N-methyl bis(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonamide was easily obtained via the Arbuzov reaction with use of commercially available tris(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphite, 2-bromo-N-methoxy-N-methylacetamide, and KF/alumina. The reaction of bis(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonate with several aldehydes demonstrates the versatility of the method, which gives Z-unsaturated amides in good yields.
,   alpha(1)-Antitrypsin (AT) is a major proteinase inhibitor within the lung. The Z variant of AT (E342K) polymerizes within the liver and lung, resulting in hepatic aggregation of AT and tissue deficiency, predisposing to early onset of cirrhosis and emphysema, respectively. Polymerization of the aberrant protein can be prevented in vitro by specific peptides such as FLEAIG. This peptide serves as a lead molecule to design a shorter peptide that may be effective as a therapeutic agent. In this study we employed a systematic chemical approach using alanine scanning of Ac-FLEAIG-OH and subsequent peptide shortening to study the binding of shorter peptides to Z-AT. While two additional 6-mer peptides Ac-FLAAIG-OH and Ac-FLEAAG-OH were found to bind to Z-AT, their daughter peptides Ac-FLEAA-NH(2) and Ac-FLAA-NH(2) also bound avidly to Z-AT and prevented polymerization of the protein. Further comparative studies revealed that the binding of Ac-FLAA-NH(2) was more specific for Z-AT. The peptide-AT complex formation was enhanced by the presence of C-terminal amide group on the peptide, and circular dichroism analysis demonstrated that a random coil rather than a beta-helical conformation favored binding of the peptide to AT. In summary, this study has identified novel small peptides that inhibit Z-AT polymerization, and are a significant advance towards the treatment of Z-AT-related cirrhosis and emphysema.
,   The solvent conditions that induce the formation of a left-handed Z form of poly[r(G-C)] have been extended to include 6.5 M NaBr at 35 degrees C and 3.8 M MgCl2 at room temperature. The analysis of the A----Z transition in RNA by circular dichroism (CD), 1H and 31P NMR, and Raman spectroscopy shows that two distinct forms of left-handed RNA exist. The ZR-RNA structure forms in high concentrations of NaBr and NaClO4 and exhibits a unique CD signature. ZD-RNA is found in concentrated MgCl2 and has a CD signature similar to the Z form of poly[d(G-C)]. The loss of Raman intensity of the 813-cm-1 A-form marker band in both the A----ZR-RNA and A----ZD-RNA transitions parallels the loss of intensity at 835 cm-1 in the B----Z transition of DNA. A guanine vibration that is sensitive to the glycosyl torsion angle shifts from 671 cm-1 in A-RNA to 641 cm-1 in both ZD- and ZR-RNA, similar to the B----Z transition in DNA in which this band shifts from 682 to 625 cm-1. Significant differences in the glycosyl angle and sugar pucker between Z-DNA and Z-RNA are suggested by the 16-cm-1 difference in the position of this band. The Raman evidence for structural difference between ZD- and ZR-RNA comes from two groups of bands: First, Raman intensities between 1180 and 1600 cm-1 of ZD-RNA differ from those for ZR-RNA, corroborating the CD evidence for differences in base-stacking geometry. Second, the phosphodiester stretching bands near 815 cm-1 provide evidence of differences in backbone geometry between ZD- and ZR-RNA.
,   Protonated lysine fragments primarily by elimination of the epsilon-amino group as ammonia to form an ion of m/z 130 and to a minor extent by elimination of H2O to form an ion of m/z 129. Protonated lysine derivatives such as lysine beta-naphthylamide and H-Lys-Gly-OH show more pronounced formation of m/z 129 while protonated derivatives such as N alpha-Ac-Lys-X (X = OH, OMe, NHMe) and H-Gly-Lys-X (X = OH, NHCH2COOH) also show formation of m/z 129 in both metastable ion and collision-induced fragmentation. In both the latter systems m/z 129 is formed by sequential loss of HX followed by loss of ketene for the N-acetyl derivatives or the glycine residue for the N-glycyl derivatives. Although the m/z 129 ion is nominally an acylium ion, its metastable ion characteristics and collision-induced dissociation mass spectrum are very similar to those of protonated alpha-amino-epsilon-caprolactam. It is concluded that this lactam is formed from the lysine derivatives by interaction of the amino group of the lysine side-chain with the lysine carbonyl function as HX departs. Protonated N alpha-methyllysine and N alpha-dimethyllysine fragment exclusively by elimination of CH3NH2 and (CH3)2NH, respectively. Evidence is presented that the stable structure of the m/z 130 ion so formed is protonated pipecolic acid. Both the protonated alpha-amino-epsilon-caprolactam and protonated pipecolic acid ions fragment further primarily to [C5H10N]+ (m/z 84), a low mass ion commonly observed in the spectra of lysine-containing peptides.
,   In the range 308-90 K single crystals of [Ni(H(2)O)(6)](NO(3))(2)·(15-crown-5)·2H(2)O continue to diffract well as they undergo three phase transitions. Structures have been determined at 28 different temperatures; data were collected at six more but could not be refined satisfactorily. The transitions identified structurally are in good agreement with those found by thermal analysis. Phase I (above ca 292 K; I2/m, Z = 2, Z' = ¼) is disordered because the 15-crown-5 molecule is located on a 2/m site. Phase II (ca 292-248 K; P2(1)/m, Z = 2, Z' = ½) is less disordered. Phase III (ca 248-208 K; B2(1), Z = 28, Z' = 7 in a commensurate approximation) is modulated with some regions resembling phase II and the rest resembling the fully ordered phase IV (P2(1)/c, Z = 4, Z' = 1) that is stable below ca 208 K. The modulated structure could be determined well because crystals flash-cooled to 90 K usually retain the phase III structure. The unusual phase III may be a consequence of the differing thermal contraction of two types of alternating layers, one composed of neutral 15-crown-5 molecules and the other composed of the cations, anions and lattice water molecules, which form a hydrogen-bonded network. The two kinds of layers are linked by O(ether)···H(2)O(axial)-Ni hydrogen bonds.
,   The first three-color three-dimensional visualization of A, B and Z-forms of DNA is presented. This was done with rendered drawings derived from computer-generated stereo and mono graphics of infinite helices, using recognized clues of size, eclipsing, weight of line, tonality and color.
,   The synthesis of the major component of the sex pheromone of the processionary mothThaumetopoea pityocampa is described. The synthesis uses the carbocupration of acetylene, followed by the coupling with the appropriate 1-iodoalkyne. This synthetic pheromone was shown to be of 98.8%Z purity. 
,   A short and stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-13-hexadecen-1 1-yn-1-yl acetate is described. The main feature is a low-temperature Wittig reaction of a triphenylpropylphosphonium bromide with a long-chain alkylated propargyl aldehyde. 
,   The imaging time-of-flight secondary-ion-mass-spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) method was utilized to address the problem of cholesterol localization in rat tissues. Rat kidneys were fixed, cryoprotected by sucrose, frozen, sectioned by cryoultramicrotomy, and dried at room temperature. The samples were either covered with a thin silver layer or analyzed uncovered in an imaging TOF-SIMS instrument equipped with an Au1-3(+)-source. The yield of desorbed secondary ions for some species was up to 600-fold higher after silver coating of the samples. Reference samples of cholesterol were silver-coated and analyzed by TOF-SIMS to define significant peaks, specific for cholesterol. Such peaks were found at m/z = 386 (C27H46O+), m/z = 493 (C27H46O107Ag+), m/z = 495 (C27H46O109Ag+), m/z = 879 (C54H92O2 107Ag+), and m/z = 881 (C54H92O2 109Ag+). The silver-cationized cholesterol (493 < or = m/z < or = 495) signal was localized by imaging TOF-SIMS in the kidney sections and showed a high cholesterol content in the kidney glomeruli. A more diffuse distribution of cholesterol was also found over areas representing the cytoplasm or plasma membrane of the epithelial cells in the proximal tubules of rat kidney.
,   To compare the accuracy of D&C and office Z-sampler endometrial biopsy in predicting hysterectomy tumor grade in women with endometrial cancer.ween September 1987 and July 1994, 183 women with endometrial cancer had D&C or office Z-sampler endometrial biopsy before hysterectomy. hundred thirty-one patients (72%) had Z-sampler biopsies and 52 (28%) had D&C. The Z-sampler correctly identified the hysterectomy tumor grade in 76 of 131 patients (58%), compared with 40 of 52 (77%) with D&C, a significant difference (P = .024). The major difference observed was an increased fraction of lesions undergraded (ie, a lower grade tumor found in the biopsy than in the hysterectomy specimen) by the Z-sampler (34 of 131, 26%) versus D&C (five of 52, 10%).ation and curettage was more accurate in identifying hysterectomy tumor grade and less likely to miss a higher-grade tumor than was Z-sampler biopsy. However, the inaccuracy of D&C alone necessitates further preoperative and intraoperative assessment for other risk factors to determine the aggressiveness with which an individual patient should be staged surgically.
,   In vertebrate skeletal muscle, ultrastructural studies have suggested that the Z-line and extracellular intermediate filaments are linked, although a structural basis for this has remained elusive. We searched for potential novel ligands of the Z-line portion of nebulin by a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) approach. This identified that the nebulin modules M160 to M170 interact with desmin. In desmin, deletion series experiments assigned a 19-kDa central coiled-coil domain as the nebulin-binding site. The specific interactions of nebulin and desmin were confirmed in vitro by GST pull-down experiments. In situ, the nebulin modules M176 to M181 colocalize with desmin in a Z-line-associated, striated pattern as shown by immunofluorescence studies. Our data are consistent with a model that desmin attaches directly to the Z-line through its interaction with the nebulin repeats M163-M170. This interaction may link myofibrillar Z-discs to the intermediate filament system, thereby forming a lateral linkage system which contributes to maintain adjacent Z-lines in register.
,   Published data on inactivation of V79 cells irradiated with monoenergetic proton and ion beams (He, C, O, Ne) have been analysed. Values for RBE alpha, RBE10% and the inactivation cross section sigma have been evaluated in the LET range between 5 and 400 keV.micron-1. RBE against LET curves and inactivation cross sections against LET and against Z*2/beta 2 curves have been studied in a comparative approach with respect to the different ion types. RBE-LET curves depend strongly on the type of ion for LET > 30 keV.micron-1. At LET < 30 keV.micron-1 and low doses protons show the greatest effectiveness; at LET > 30 keV.micron-1 and high doses He ions provide the most effective radiation. Apart from protons, separation among the various ion curves is less marked in the sigma against Z*2/beta 2 plot than in the sigma against LET plot. sigma against Z*2/beta 2 curves for ions with 2 < or = Z < or = 10 and 200 < Z*2/beta 2 < 1500 show a common trend independent of Z and are well represented by a linear relationship.
,   Objectives. To assess the outcome of fetuses with isolated short femur detected at 19-41 weeks and determine to what extent this incidental finding should be a cause of concern in fetuses with a normal previous follow-up. Methods. 156 fetuses with isolated short femur were compared with a control group of 637 fetuses with normal femur length. FL values were converted into Z-scores and classified into 4 groups: control group: Z-score over -2, group 1: Z-score between -2 and -3, group 2: Z-score between -3 and -4, and group 3: Z-score below -4. FL values were plotted with the curves representing Z-scores -2, -3, and -4. To assess fetal outcome, the frequency of SGA, IUGR, abnormal umbilical Doppler (AUD), Down's syndrome, and skeletal dysplasia was determined for each group after delivery, and the relative risk in comparison with the control group was obtained. Finally, ROC curves were drawn in order to evaluate the FL diagnostic ability for the conditions appearing with increased frequency. Results. SGA, IUGR, and AUD were more frequent in the fetuses with short femur. Conversely, none of them presented Down's syndrome or skeletal dysplasia. According to ROC analysis, FL measurement behaved as a good diagnostic test for SGA and IUGR. Conclusions. A short femur diagnosis in a fetus with an otherwise normal follow-up determines just a higher risk of being small (SGA or IUGR).
,   We analyzed sequences of the D1D2 domain of the 26S ribosomal RNA gene (26S rDNA sequence), the internal transcribed spacer 1, the 5.8S ribosomal RNA gene, and the internal transcribed spacer 2 (the ITS sequence) from 46 strains of miso and soy sauce fermentation yeast, Zygosaccharomyces rouxii and a closely related species, Z. mellis, for typing. Based on the 26S rDNA sequence analysis, the Z. rouxii strains were of two types, and the extent of sequence divergence between them was 2.6%. Based on the ITS sequence analysis, they were divided into seven types (I-VII). Between the type strain (type I) and type VI, in particular, a 12% difference was detected. The occurrence of these nine genotypes with a divergence of more than 1% in these two sequences suggests that Z. rouxii is a species complex including novel species and hybrids. Z. mellis strains were of two types (type alpha and type beta) based on the ITS sequence. Z. rouxii could clearly be distinguished from Z. mellis by 26S rDNA and ITS sequence analyses, but not by the 16% NaCl tolerance, when used as the sole key characteristic for differentiation between the two species.
,   Carcinogenic aryl hydrazines produce C8-arylated purine adducts. The effect of these adducts on DNA conformation and their role in hydrazine carcinogenesis are unknown. Here, we describe a new synthetic route to produce these adducts that is also compatible with the synthesis of the corresponding phosphoramidites needed for oligonucleotide synthesis. Two oligonucleotides were prepared, an unmodified oligonucleotide, d((5)(')CGCGCGCGCG(3)(')), and a C8-phenylguanine modified oligonucleotide, d((5)(')CGCGCGCGCG(3)(')) (G = 8-phenylguanine). These oligonucleotides were compared using thermal denaturation, circular dichroism, NMR, and molecular modeling. The phenyl modification destabilizes the B DNA form and stabilizes the Z DNA form such that the B:Z ratio is near one under physiological conditions. In light of recent studies that show a role for Z DNA in gene expression and cell transformation, Z DNA stabilization by C8-arylguanine formation from aryl hydrazines may be relevant to their role in carcinogenesis.
,   We previously reported the discovery of a simple conjugated cyano pharmacophore which had led to the development of (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)acrylonitrile, as a selective inhibitor of oestrogen receptor positive (ER+ve) human breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Further exploration though modification of the acrylonitrile and aromatic substituents has highlighted key structural components necessary for broad spectrum cytotoxicity. The acrylic acid derivates (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)acrylic acid and (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)acrylic acid (9) were inactive; confirming the importance of the cyanide moiety. The most potent 2-phenylacrylonitriles synthesized were (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)acrylonitrile and (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(1H-indol-5-yl)acrylonitrile (20) with an average GI(50) values of 1.4 and 0.53 μM respectively. Five additional (Z)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-(indolyl)acrylonitriles also displayed average GI(50) values of ≤8.4 μM. In the case of indole, this represents a 32-fold increase in broad spectrum cytotoxicity relative to the lead.
,   The zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) has a large Z chromosome and highly condensed W chromosome. We used the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique to isolate female-specific sequences ZBM1 and ZBM2. Southern blot hybridization to male and female zebra finch genomic DNA suggested that these sequences were located on the W chromosome, although homologous sequences appeared to be autosomal or Z-linked. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones corresponding to ZBM sequences showed hybridization to the whole W chromosome, suggesting that the BACs encode sequences that are repeated across the entire W chromosome. Based on the sequencing of a ZBM repetitive sequence and Z chromosome derived BAC clones, we demonstrate a random distribution of repeat sequences that are specific to the W chromosome or encoded by both Z and W. The positions of ZW-common repeat sequences mapped to a noncoding region of a Z chromosome BAC clone containing the CHD1Z gene. The apparent lineage-specificity of W chromosome repeat sequences in passerines and galliform birds suggest that the W chromosome had not differentiated well from the Z at the time of divergence of these lineages.
,   The formation of thick filaments in striated muscle involves the chaperones Hsp90a and Unc45. We show that Unc45b and Hsp90a, two zebrafish orthologues, colocalize with myosin during myofibrillogenesis and associate with the Z line when myofibril assembly is completed. In response to stress or damage to the myofiber, Unc45b and Hsp90a dissociate from the Z line and transiently associate with myosin. Although chaperone activity of Unc45b requires the full-length protein, only the central and Unc45-Cro1p-She4p domains are required to anchor it to the Z line, and multiple subdomains mediate association with nascent myosin. We propose that the Z line serves as a reservoir for chaperones, allowing a rapid mobilization in response to muscle damage. Our data are consistent with a differential affinity model as an explanation for the shuttling of the chaperones between the Z line and myosin.
,   Sixty-three chronic schizophrenic in-patients were included in the double-blind, double-dummy clinical trial comparing antipsychotic activity and side effects of cis(Z)-clopenthixol and haloperidol. Test treatment was administered at least 8 and in most cases 12 weeks with clinical evaluations including BPRS, NOSIE-30, CGI and single side effects done at weeks 0, 2, 4, 8, and 12. The average end-of-trial doses were 40 mg cis(Z)-clopenthixol and 10 mg haloperidol. Statistically significant improvements of total BPRS-score and Thinking disturbance were registered with both drugs from week 2 onwards. At week 12 when 36 patients were receiving test treatment total BPRS-score was reduced by 31% in the cis(Z)-clopenthixol group and by 17% in the haloperidol group. At week 4 Thinking disturbance was reduced by 32% in the cis(Z)-clopenthixol group and by 16% in the haloperidol group--these findings constituted the only significant difference between test drugs. Compared to the BPRS-results less improvements and no differences between test drugs were registered with NOSIE-30 and CGI. Any trends towards different frequency and severity of side effects were in the favour of cis(Z)-clopenthixol.
,   A rapid, selective and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method with electrospray ionization (ESI) was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of pitavastatin and its lactone in human plasma and urine. Following a liquid-liquid extraction, both the analytes and internal standard racemic i-prolact were separated on a BDS Hypersil C(8) column, using methanol-0.2% acetic acid in water (70: 30, v/v) as the mobile phase. The mass spectrometer was operated in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode using the transition m/z 422.4-->m/z 290.3 for pitavastatin, m/z 404.3-->m/z 290.3 for pitavastatin lactone and m/z 406.3-->m/z 318.3 for the internal standard, respectively. Linear calibration curves of pitavastatin and its lactone were obtained in the concentration range of 1-200 ng/ml, with a lower limit of quantitation of 1 ng/ml. The intra- and inter-day precision values were less than 4.2%, and accuracies were between -8.1 and 3.5% for both analytes. The proposed method was utilized to support clinical pharmacokinetic studies of pitavastatin in healthy subjects following oral administration.
,   alpha 1-Antitrypsin (AT) is the principal serum inhibitor of proteolytic enzymes such as neutrophil elastase. AT can exist as over 90 different genetically determined variants known as the Pi system; the three most important variants are type M (90% of population) and types S and Z, two of the commoner abnormal variants. Homozygotes of type Z have a severe reduction in the serum AT concentration and may develop pulmonary emphysema or hepatic cirrhosis. Heterozygotes of type SZ have a less severe reduction in serum AT concentration and the association with clinical disease is less clear. The S and Z variants are found mainly among those of European stock. The gene frequency for Pi type Z is highest on the north-western seaboard of the continent and the mutation seems likely to have arisen in southern Scandinavia. The distribution of type S is quite different; the gene frequency is highest in the Iberian peninsula and the mutation is likely to have arisen in that region. A population survey for determining the number of type Z homozygotes in a given community is important for planning purposes now that AT replacement therapy is potentially available.
,   To discuss the synergistic mechanism of compatible use of two medicinal herbs, Zingiber offiicinale and Aconitum cainichaeli, by determining single decoction of Z. offiicinale and four gingerols (6-gingerol, 8-gingerol, 6-shogaol, 10-gingerol) contained in compound decoction of Z. offiicinale and A. cainichaeli of different compatibility ratio using HPLC.masil-C18 column (4.6 mm x 250 mm, 5 microm) was adopted. The mobile phase was acetonitrile (B) and 0.1% aqueous acetic acid (A) for gradient elution (0-30 min, 40%-90% B; 30-35 min, 90%-40% B). The flow rate was 1.0 mL x min(-1). The detection wavelength was set at 275 nm. The column temperature was 30 degrees C. four gingerols were in baseline separation, with a good linearity (r > 0.999), an average recovery of 100.9% -103.5% and RSD < 3.0%. Compared with the single decoction of Z. offiicinale, the content of gingerols in the compound decoction of Z. offiicinale and A. cainichaeli was on the rise and in direct proportion with the increase in the volume of A. cainichaeli. synergistic mechanism of the compatibility of Z. offiicinale and A. cainichaeli can be proved with the increased release of gingerols from Z. offiicinale.
,   The Z-DNA binding domain of human ADAR1 (Zα(ADAR1)) preferentially binds Z-DNA rather than B-DNA with high binding affinity. Here, we have carried out chemical shift perturbation and backbone dynamics studies of Zα(ADAR1) in the free form and in complex with three DNA duplexes, d(CGCGCG)(2), d(CACGTG)(2), and d(CGTACG)(2). This study reveals that Zα(ADAR1) initially binds to d(CGCGCG)(2) through the distinct conformation, especially in the unusually flexible β1-loop-α2 region, from the d(CGCGCG)(2)-(Zα(ADAR1))(2) complex. This study also suggests that Zα(ADAR1) exhibits a distinct conformational change during the B-Z transition of non-CG-repeat DNA duplexes with low binding affinities compared to the CG-repeat DNA duplex.
,   This paper presents a retention model for proteins on an reversed-phase chromatography support in which retention is a function of the number (Z) of solvent molecules required to displace the solute from the surface. An equation is derived that relates the capacity factor of a protein to the displacing agent concentration and the stoichiometry of solvent-solute displacement. Experimental tests of the model indicate that each protein has a unique Z value and that Z is directly proportional to the molecular weight of a series of proteins when 60% formic acid is used as the mobile phase additive. This relationship is attributed to a direct relationship between Z and the contact surface area between polypeptide solutes and the support. Desorption curves for proteins also become more convex with increasingly molecular weight, as predicted by the retention model. In the solvent series of methanol, ethanol, propanol, the Z number decreases from the C1 to C3 alcohol. The Z number for any particular solvent is also related to other mobile phase additives, such as acids, and the concentration of additives.
,   High-resolution HeI photoemission spectroscopy (UPS), Mn 2p-3d resonant photoemission spectroscopy (RPES) and Mn 2p X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) have been performed to investigate the electronic structure and its effect on the electrical resistivity in (La(1-z)Nd(z))(0.46)Sr(0.54)MnO(3) (z = 0, 0, 2, 0.6 and 1.0). It was found that in the UPS and RPES spectra the Fermi edge persisted over the temperature range 15 < or = T < or = 340 K regardless of the magnetic structure or the composition of the samples. The density of states at the Fermi level [N(E(F))] in the samples where 0 < or = z < or = 0.6 was increased drastically at the Curie temperature (T(C)) with decreasing temperature, but essentially kept unchanged across the Néel temperature (T(N)). A fairly large reduction at T(C) and a small increase at T(N) in the electrical resistivity with decreasing temperature are found to be well accounted for in terms of the temperature dependence of N(E(F)). The presence of a finite N(E(F)) in the insulating Nd(0.46)Sr(0.54)MnO(3) was also found. Thus the origin of the insulating behavior in this sample can be regarded as the Anderson localization associated with the small density of states and the chemical disorder between Nd and Sr.
,   To investigate the hypothesis that Z-score criteria represent a reliable predictor of implantation rate and pregnancy outcome in in vitro fertilization (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycles, excluding the possibility of embryo selection before the embryo transfer.rospective clinical study.tre of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Arcispedale S. Maria Nuova (ASMN), Reggio Emilia, Italy.analyzed 393 pregnancies obtained by IVF or ICSI cycles.phologic evaluations of Z-score in pre-embryos obtained from IVF or ICSI cycles.luations of Z-scores, implantation rate, and clinical pregnancy outcome.did not find any statistically significant correlation between the Z-score of 1032 embryos transferred in 393 embryo transfers and the implantation rate or the pregnancy outcome. In particular, the best Z-score identified (Z1, 7.2%) did not seem to correlate with embryo implantation rate or pregnancy outcomes any better than those with worse scores (Z2, 6.9% and Z3, 85.9%). results seem to confirm that Z-score alone cannot be considered a better tool than standard morphologic criteria for identifying, controlling, or selecting embryos with a better chance of successful ongoing pregnancy.
,   We have studied the properties of complexes formed between histones and the methylated synthetic polydeoxynucleotide poly(dG-m5dC). poly(dG-m5dC). This polymer undergoes the transition from B DNA to left-handed Z DNA at moderate ionic strength. When the polymer is in the Z form it will bind histones, but nucleosomes are not detected. When the polymer in the B form is combined with equimolar quantities of the four core histones and digested with micrococcal nuclease, particles are formed which behave in all respects as normal nucleosome cores. When these core particles are placed in solvents that would result in conversion of the protein-free polymer to the Z form, no transition is observed. The formation of a nucleosome core particle thus stabilizes the B form, whereas the presence of the Z form prevents nucleosome formation. The results suggest that if Z DNA is present in eukaryotic nuclei, it will serve to disrupt the normal chromatin structure.
,   Tropomyosin localization in striated muscle was studied by means of immunoelectron microscopy. Polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to tropomyosin were allowed to diffuse into mechanically skinned single fibres dissected from frog semitendinosus muscle. Antibodies produced transverse I-band stripes with the expected periodicity of 38 nm. However, some differences were revealed among the various antibodies. While polyclonal antibodies generally showed 23 stripes, monoclonal antibodies showed an extra 24th stripe immediately adjacent to the Z-line, implying some structural/functional uniqueness of this terminal tropomyosin. Furthermore, the stripes did not always lie parallel to the Z-line. When the Z-line was straight or slightly skewed, the stripes generally were parallel to it. However, when Z-line skew was more severe, the stripes remained perpendicular to the fibre axis, indifferent to the Z-line skew. This may implay that the coupling of tropomyosin to the thin filament is not tight. Finally, the monoclonal antibodies themselves exerted an anomalous effect on the Z-line, apparently extracting or shifting some of its mass.
,   We investigated the effect of Z-100, a polysaccharide-rich extract from Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain Aoyama B, on the protection of immunocompromised mice against infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Mice were given cyclophosphamide and then treated with varying doses of Z-100 for 5 days or left untreated. One day after the completion of the treatment, they were challenged with P. aeruginosa and the mortality was scored. A significantly enhanced protection was observed in the treated group and bacterial number in organs was significantly lower compared with non-treated group. Though the activity of phagocytes did not appear to be activated since there was no difference in chemiluminescence response of peritoneal phagocytes between control and Z-100-treated groups, an enhanced accumulation of phagocytes was observed after bacterial challenge in Z-100-treated group. It was suggested that Z-100 is effective in the restoration of impaired resistance of immuno-compromised mice to bacterial infection possibly through a stimulation of phagocyte accumulation into the site of infection.
,   The correlation between the reduction of Q(A) and the oxidation of Tyr(Z) or Car/Chl(Z)/Cyt(b559) in spinach PSII enriched membranes induced by visible light at 10 K is studied by using electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. Similar g=1.95-1.86 Q(A)(-*)EPR signals are observed in both Mn-depleted and intact samples, and both signals are long lived at low temperatures. The presence of PPBQ significantly diminished the light induced EPR signals from Q(A)(-*), Car(+*)/Chl(+*) and oxidized Cyt(b559), while enhancing the amplitude of the S(1)Tyr(Z)* EPR signal in the intact PSII sample. The quantification and stability of the g=1.95-1.86 EPR signal and signals arising from the oxidized Tyr(Z) and the side-path electron donors, respectively, indicate that the EPR-detectable g=1.95-1.86 Q(A)(-*) signal is only correlated to reaction centers undergoing oxidation of the side-path electron donors (Car/Chl(Z)/Cyt(b559)), but not of Tyr(Z). These results imply that two types of Q(A)(-*) probably exist in the intact PSII sample. The structural difference and possible function of the two types of Q(A) are discussed.
,   Oxygenation of linoleic acid by Aspergillus terreus was studied with LC-MS/MS. 9(R)-Hydroperoxy-10(E),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid (9R-HpODE) was identified along with 10(R)-hydroxy-8(E),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid and variable amounts of 8(R)-hydroxy-9(Z),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid. 9R-HpODE was formed from [11S-2H]18:2n-6 with loss of the deuterium label, suggesting antarafacial hydrogen abstraction and oxygenation. Two polar metabolites were identified as 9-hydroxy-10-oxo-12(Z)-octadecenoic acid (alpha-ketol) and 13-hydroxy-10-oxo-11(E)-octadecenoic acid (gamma-ketol), likely formed by spontaneous hydrolysis of an unstable allene oxide, 9(R),10-epoxy-10,12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid. alpha-Linolenic acid and 20:2n-6 were oxidized to hydroperoxy fatty acids at C-9 and C-11, respectively, but alpha- and gamma-ketols of these fatty acids could not be detected. The genome of A. terreus lacks lipoxygenases, but contains genes homologous to 5,8-linoleate diol synthases and linoleate 10R-dioxygenases of aspergilli. Our results demonstrate that linoleate 9R-dioxygenase linked to allene oxide synthase activities can be expressed in fungi.
,   A unique, simple, and general analytical solution for the nonlinear Poisson-Boltzmann equation in semiinfinite planar symmetry with any unmixed electrolyte is reported. This is an exact solution for symmetrical and z-2z/2z-z asymmetrical electrolytes and an approximate solution for other asymmetrical electrolytes (z-3z/3z-z or 2z-3z/3z-2z). To evaluate the accuracy of the approximate solution, the solution was compared with the numerical results obtained from the Galerkin weighted residual finite element method. The error of the approximate solution for asymmetrical z-3z/3z-z or 2z-3z/3z-2z electrolytes is not more than 1%. This new solution unifies all the cases in semiinfinite planar symmetry with any unmixed electrolyte into one expression without increasing the mathematical complexity. The general solution can serve as a functional approximation for potential distribution of two interacting electric double layers when calculating electrostatic interaction energy if the superposition approximation is used.
,   Quantitative investigation of the shape selectivity for the competitive intercalation reaction of isomeric mixtures in the interlayer of LDH was achieved by analyzing the solid phases synthesized by the reaction of [LiAl(2)(OH)(6)]Cl.yH(2)O with various compositional mixtures of (E,E)- and (Z,Z)-muconates. The apparent partition constant K' for the anion-exchange reaction between (E,E)- and (Z,Z)-muconates was quite dependent on the mole fraction of muconates in solution. The only single phase saturated with [LiAl(2)(OH)(6)](2)[(E,E)-C(6)H(4)O(4)].zH(2)O could be obtained in the range of the initial mole fraction of (E,E)-muconate larger than 0.6 in the starting solution, while mixed phases intercalated with (E,E)- and (Z,Z)-muconates could be obtained at lower mole fractions of (E,E)-muconate. The shape selectivity for the competitive reaction of two muconates on the [LiAl(2)(OH)(6)](+) lattice could be ascribed to thermodynamic processes, and the conditions under which that pure (E,E)-muconate was efficiently separated from isomeric mixtures of two muconates were successfully evaluated.
,   To develop a sensitive and rapid liquid chromatographic-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) method for simultaneous quantitation of metformin and glipizide in human plasma, metformin, glipizide and internal standard diphenhydramine were separated from plasma by protein precipitation with acetonitrile (containing 0.3% formic acid), then chromatographed by using a Zorbax Extend C18 column. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile-water-formic acid (70:30: 0.3, v/v/v), at a flow rate of 0.50 mL x min(-1). A tandem mass spectrometer equipped with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization source was used as detector and operated in the positive ion mode. Selected reaction monitoring (SRM) using the precursor/production combinations of m/z 130-->m/z 60, m/z 446-->m/z 321 and m/z 256-->m/z 167 were used to quantify metformin, glipizide and diphenhydramine, respectively. The linear concentration ranges of the calibration curves for metformin and glipizide were 2.00 - 2000 ng x mL(-1) and 1.00 - 1000 ng x mL(-1), respectively. The lower limits of quantitation of metformin and glipizide were 2.00 ng x mL(-1) and 1.00 ng x mL(-1), respectively. The method proved to be sensitive, simple and rapid, and suitable for clinical investigation of compound preparation containing metformin and glipizide.
,   The anthocyanins of 21 hybrid red varieties produced by crossing V. vinifera, V. riparia, V. labrusca, V. lincecumii and V. rupestris species, the profiles for which have not yet been reported, were studied. Profiles were determined by LC/DAD, and identification of single anthocyanins was confirmed by LC/MS precursor-ion analysis. Anthocyanidin precursors (pelargonidin at m/z 271, dephinidin at m/z 303, cyanidin at m/z 287, petunidin at m/z 317, peonidin at m/z 301, and malvidin at m/z 331) and precursors of monoglucoside compounds allowed 24 different compounds to be identified. Analysis of precursor ions of monoglucoside anthocyanins at low capillary voltage revealed the signals of diglucosides only, providing a very selective method for analysis of diglucoside anthocyanins in grape. According to anthocyanin profile, the samples were subdivided into two groups: one characterized by the substantial presence of diglucoside compounds (particularly Seyve Villard 23-399 and Seyve Villard 23-369) and one by the scarce presence or practical absence of diglucosides (Seibel 10878, Burdin 4077, and Galibert 238-35). Particularly interesting for producing anthocyanin for the natural colorant industry were the varieties Siebel 8357, Bacò 30-12 and Terzi 100-31.
,   A one-pot method for the direct preparation of enantioenriched (Z)-disubstituted allylic alcohols is introduced. Hydroboration of 1-halo-1-alkynes with dicyclohexylborane, reaction with t-BuLi, and transmetalation with dialkylzinc reagents generate (Z)-disubstituted vinylzinc intermediates. In situ reaction of these reagents with aldehydes in the presence of a catalyst derived from (-)-MIB generates (Z)-disubstituted allylic alcohols. It was found that the resulting allylic alcohols were racemic, most likely due to a rapid addition reaction promoted by LiX (X = Br and Cl). To suppress the LiX-promoted reaction, a series of inhibitors were screened. It was found that 20-30 mol % tetraethylethylenediamine inhibited LiCl without inhibiting the chiral zinc-based Lewis acid. In this fashion, (Z)-disubstituted allylic alcohols were obtained with up to 98% ee. The asymmetric (Z)-vinylation could be coupled with tandem diastereoselective epoxidation reactions to provide epoxy alcohols and allylic epoxy alcohols with up to three contiguous stereogenic centers, enabling the rapid construction of complex building blocks with high levels of enantio- and diastereoselectivity.
,   The latest CDF anomaly, the excess of dijet events in the invariant-mass window 120-160 GeV in associated production with a W boson, can be explained by a baryonic Z' model in which the Z' boson has negligible couplings to leptons. Although this Z' model is hardly subject to the Drell-Yan constraint from Tevatron, it is constrained by the dijet data from UA2 (√s=630 GeV), and the precision measurements at LEP through the mixing with the SM Z boson. We show that under these constraints this model can still explain the excess in the M(jj)∼120-160  GeV window, as well as the claimed cross section σ(WZ')∼4  pb. Implications at the Tevatron would be the associated production of γZ', ZZ', and Z'Z' with the Z'→jj. We show that with tightened jet cuts and improved systematic uncertainties both γZ'→γjj and ZZ'→ℓ(+)ℓ(-) jj channels could be useful to probe this model at the Tevatron.
,   Structural properties and energetics of Cr-based Z-phases (CrNbN, Cr(Nb,V)N and CrVN) were investigated using the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP) code employing the projector augmented wave (PAW) pseudopotentials by means of both local density approximation (LDA) and generalized gradient approximation (GGA) for the exchange and correlation term. The geometry of all studied phases including NbN, VN and elemental constituents (nonmagnetic bcc Nb and V and antiferromagnetic bcc Cr) was fully relaxed, providing the equilibrium structure parameters and total energies. The calculated lattice parameters of Z-phases correspond very well to the experimental data and decrease with increasing molar fraction of vanadium. Enthalpies of formation show that all three Z-phases are stable at T = 0 K. The electronic structures of Z-phases including densities of states and charge densities were analysed. The calculated bulk moduli and elastic constants were used to evaluate stability conditions and elastic anisotropy ratios. It was confirmed that Z-phases are mechanically stable. Additional information on ductility was obtained from Cauchy pressures, Pugh ratios, Young moduli, and Poisson ratios. The ductility evaluated using the Pugh ratio decreases with number of vanadium atoms.
,   The dipeptide Z-prolyl-D-leucine (Z-Pro-D-Leu) has been demonstrated to inhibit the development of tolerance to and dependence on morphine in the mouse. Since the dipeptide affects dopamine (DA) utilization in the terminal regions of the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal DA-ergic projections, the question has been studied of whether DA-ergic mechanisms are involved in the action of Z-Pro-D-Leu on morphine withdrawal. Both inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (alpha-MPT) and inhibition of DA receptors by pimozide interfere with the effect of Z-Pro-D-Leu on naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. Inhibition of serotonin (5-HT) synthesis by DL-p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), on the other hand, does not modify the effect of the dipeptide. The results argue for a role of DA-ergic mechanisms in the effect of Z-Pro-D-Leu on the development of morphine dependence.
,   The comparative peroxidative metabolism of diethylstilbestrol (DES) and structurally related compounds of different biological activity was investigated in vitro with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) as a model peroxidase system: UV spectroscopy revealed the formation of p-quinone intermediates in HRP-H2O2 catalyzed incubations of DES, 3',3",5',5"-tetrafluoro-DES (TF-DES) and dimethylstilbestrol (DMS) and the tautomerization of the quinones to their dien compounds, Z,Z-dienestrol (Z,Z-DIES), tetrafluoro-dienestrol (TF-DIES) and dienmestrol (DIMS) respectively, which were characterized by HPLC and GC/MS. Z,Z-DIES, E,E-DIES, TF-DIES and DIMS were subject to further peroxidative metabolism; however, quinone intermediates were not formed in the HRP-H2O2 containing incubations according to UV spectroscopy. Similarly, hexestrol (HES), 4'-O-methyl-DES (M-DES) and 4',4"-O-dimethyl-DES (DM-DES) did not form quinone intermediates; moreover, they showed little or no apparent metabolic conversion under conditions where DES, TF-DES and DMS were readily peroxidized. However, at a 20-fold higher peroxidase concentration HES and M-DES showed metabolic conversion whereas DM-DES did not.
,   Plasmids containing (C-G)n inserts have been used to study the inhibition of cleavage by restriction endonucleases due to Z-DNA formation in negatively supercoiled plasmids. The enzyme BssHII, which recognizes G-C-G-C-G-C, is strongly inhibited when the insert forms Z-DNA. The BamHI recognition sequence (G-G-A-T-C-C) was placed in four different positions near the B-Z junction and the inhibition of BamHI cleavage was determined as a function of negative superhelical density. Formation of Z-DNA in the (C-G)n insert inhibited cleavage by BamHI when its recognition sequence was located immediately adjacent to the insert or four base pairs away from it. However, no inhibition was found when the BamHI recognition site was eight base pairs away. These experiments help to define the limits of the structural perturbation associated with the B-Z junction.
,   Four novel analogues of (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine [(E)-BrVUdR]--the (E)- and (Z)-isomer of 5-(2-fluorovinyl)-UdR (FVUdR), (Z)-5-(2-carboxy-2-fluorovinyl)-UdR [(Z)-COOH-FVUdR], and (E)-5-(2-ethoxyvinyl)-UdR [(E)-EOVUdR] were compared with the reference compounds (E)-BrVUdR and 5-vinyl-UdR (VUdR) for their inhibitory effects on plaque formation of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1 strain 77) and type 2 (HSV-2 strain 82) in human embryonic lung fibroblast (HELF) cell cultures. (Z)-FVUdR and (Z)-COOH-FVUdR were completely inactive against HSV-1 and HSV-2 (ID50 greater than 500 microM). For the other analogues the following order of decreasing potency was found: (E)-BrVUdR greater than VUdR greater than (E)-FVUdR much greater than (E)-EOVUdR (against HSV-1) and VUdR much greater than (E)-BrVUdR greater than (E)-FVUdR much greater than (E)-EOVUdR (against HSV-2).
,   Static and dynamic light-scattering studies of solutions of ovine submaxillary mucin (OSM) glycoproteins, fractionated by exclusion chromatography on Sephacryl S-1000, are reported. These experiments yielded information regarding the structure and conformation of the glycoprotein chain, in the form of weight-average molecular weights, Mw, z-average radius of gyration, Rg,z, and z-average of the inverse hydrodynamic radius, (Rh-1)z. The values of (Rh-1)z are found to correlate very well with the S-1000 elution volume characteristics for four OSM fractions of different molecular weights. The structural parameters for these OSM fractions are, within experimental error, similar to those deduced for porcine submaxillary mucins (PSM) in earlier studies. The results suggest that, like PSM, the glycoprotein structure of OSM consists of linear chains constructed by covalently linking two or more elementary subunits together via disulfide bonds. In addition, the rigidity of the protein core of OSM is substantially greater than that observed for non-glycosylated-polypeptide random coils. Because (Rh-1)z, and hence, elution volume depends only on the molecular weight of the mucin protein core, the Mw calibration obtained for OSM should be applicable to the chromatography of other mucin glycoproteins.
,   Accurate tRNA 3' end maturation is essential for aminoacylation and thus for protein synthesis in all organisms. Here we report the first identification of protein and DNA sequences for tRNA 3'-processing endonucleases (RNase Z). Purification of RNase Z from wheat identified a 43 kDa protein correlated with the activity. Peptide sequences obtained from the purified protein were used to identify the corresponding gene. In vitro expression of the homologous proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Methano coccus janaschii confirmed their tRNA 3'-processing activities. These RNase Z proteins belong to the ELAC1/2 family of proteins and to the cluster of orthologous proteins COG 1234. The RNase Z enzymes from A.thaliana and M.janaschii are the first members of these families to which a function can now be assigned. Proteins with high sequence similarity to the RNase Z enzymes from A.thaliana and M.janaschii are present in all three kingdoms.
,   The Z/EG transgenic mouse line, produced by Novak et al., displays tissue-specific EGFP expression after Cre-mediated recombination. The autofluorescence of EGFP allows the visualization of cells of interest displaying Cre recombination. The initial construct was designed such that cells without Cre recombination express the beta-galactosidase marker, facilitating counterselection. We used inverse PCR to identify the site of integration of the Z/EG transgene, to improve the efficiency of homozygous Z/EG mouse production. Recombined cells produced large amounts of EGFP protein, resulting in higher levels of fluorescence and therefore greater contrast with nonrecombined cells. We mapped the transgene to the G1 region of chromosome 5. This random insertion was found to have occurred 230-bp upstream from the start codon of the Rasa4 gene. The insertion of the Z/EG transgene in the C57BL/6 genetic background had no effect on Rasa4 expression. Homozygous Z/EG mice therefore had no obvious phenotype.
,   The electrical impedance measured during radiofrequency cardiac ablation (RFCA) is widely used in clinical studies to predict the heating evolution and hence the success of the procedure. We hypothesized that a model based on three resistors in series can mimic the total electrical impedance measured during RFCA. The three resistors or impedances are given by: impedance associated with the tissue around the active electrode (myocardium and circulating blood) (Z-A), that associated with the tissue around the dispersive electrode (Z-DE) and that associated with the rest of the body (Z-B). Our objective was to quantify the values associated with these three impedance types by an analytical method, after which the values obtained would be compared to those estimated from clinical data from previous studies. The results suggest that an RFCA using a 7 Fr 4-mm electrode would give a Z-A of around 75 ohms, a Z-DE around 20 ohms, and Z-B would be 15±10 ohms (for body surface area variations between 1.5 and 2.5 m^2). Finally, adaptations of the proposed model were used to explain the results of previous clinical studies using a different electrode arrangement, such as in bipolar ablation of the ventricular septum. 
,   Thermal inactivation D and z values of Salmonella and Listeria monocytogenes were obtained for chicken thigh and leg meat and skin. The D values of Salmonella at 55 to 70 degrees C were 43.33 to 0.07 min in the meat and 43.76 to 0.09 min in the skin. The D values of L. monocytogenes at 55 to 70 degrees C were 38.94 to 0.04 min in the meat and 34.05 to 0.05 min in the skin. The z value of Salmonella was 5.34 degrees C in the meat and 5.56 degrees C in the skin. The z value of L. monocytogenes was 5.08 degrees C in the meat and 5.27 degrees C in the skin. For Salmonella or L. monocytogenes, the z value of the meat was not different from that of skin. However, the z value of Salmonella in meat or skin was different from that of L. monocytogenes in meat or skin. The z value of Salmonella or L. monocytogenes in chicken thigh and leg meat was different from that in the skin. The results from this study are useful for predicting process lethality of Salmonella and L. monocytogenes in products that contain chicken thigh and leg meat or skin.
,   We examined the hormonal effects of Z-350, (S)-4-[3-(4-[1-(4-methylphenyl)-3-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine-1-yl]propoxy]benzoyl)indole-1-yl]butyric acid hydrochloride, which has both alpha1-adrenoceptor blocking activity and steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitory activity, in male and female rats. Z-350 administered orally for 14 days at a dose of 30 mg/kg to normal male rats significantly reduced the weight of the prostate and seminal vesicles without affecting the weight of the testis, epididymis, adrenals, kidney or liver. Prostatic levels of dihydrotestosterone decreased dose-dependently, with a slight increase in the level of testosterone at a Z-350 dose of 100 mg/kg. We observed no effects on the weight of the prostate in castrated rats or on the weight of the uterus in normal or 17beta-estradiol-treated female rats. These results suggest that Z-350 inhibits prostatic growth via inhibition of steroid 5-reductase without other hormonal effects.
,   We  adopted the method of Zhang and Zhang (the Z-Island method) to identify genomic  islands in seven human pathogens, analyzing their chromosomal DNA sequences.  The Z-Island method is a theoretical method for predicting genomic islands in  bacterial genomes; it consists of determination of the cumulative GC profile  and computation of codon usage bias. Thirty-one genomic islands were found in  seven pathogens using this method. Further analysis demonstrated that most have  the known conserved features; this increases the probability that they are real  genomic islands. Eleven genomic islands were found to code for products  involved in causing disease (virulence factors) or in resistance to antibiotics  (resistance factors). This finding could be useful for research on the  pathogenicity of these bacteria and helpful in the treatment of the diseases  that they cause. In a comparison of the distribution of mobility elements in  genomic islands predicted by different methods, the Z-Island method gave lower  false-positive rates. The Z-Island method was found to detect more known  genomic islands than the two methods that we compared it with, SIGI-HMM and  IslandPick. Furthermore, it maintained a better balance between specificity and  sensitivity. The only inconvenience is that the steps for finding genomic  islands by the Z-Island method are semi-automatic.
,   The Chinese soft-shelled turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis, Trionychidae, Testudines) has ZZ/ZW-type micro-sex chromosomes where the 18S-28S ribosomal RNA genes (18S-28S rDNA) are located. The W chromosome is morphologically differentiated from the Z chromosome by partial deletion and amplification of 18S-28S rDNA and W-specific repetitive sequences. We recently found a functional gene (TOP3B) mapped on the P. sinensis Z chromosome, which is located on chicken (Gallus gallus, GGA) chromosome 15. Then we cloned turtle homologues of 4 other GGA15-linked genes (GIT2, NF2, SBNO1, SF3A1) and localized them to P. sinensis chromosomes. The 4 genes all mapped on the Z chromosome, and 2 of them (SBNO1, SF3A1) were also localized to the W chromosome. Our mapping data suggest that at least one large inversion occurred between GGA15 and the P. sinensis Z chromosome, and that there are homologous regions in the distal portions of both the short and long arms between the Z and W chromosomes. W chromosomal differentiation in P. sinensis probably proceeded by the deletion of the proximal chromosomal region followed by 18S-28S rDNA amplification, after a paracentric inversion occurred at the breakpoints between the distal region of 18S-28S rDNA and the proximal region of SBNO1 on the Z chromosome.
,   The semiclassical limit of the coherent state propagator <z" absolute value of e(-i H T/Planck's over 2 pi) z'> involves complex classical trajectories of the Hamiltonian H(u,v) = <v absolute value of H u> satisfying u(0) = z' and v(T) = z"*. In this work we study mostly the case z' = z". The propagator is then the return probability amplitude of a wave packet. We show that a plot of the exact return probability brings out the quantal images of the classical periodic orbits. Then we compare the exact return probability with its semiclassical approximation for a soft chaotic system with two degrees of freedom. We find two situations where classical trajectories satisfying the correct boundary conditions must be excluded from the semiclassical formula. The first occurs when the contribution of the trajectory to the propagator becomes exponentially large as Planck's over 2 pi goes to zero. The second occurs when the contributing trajectories undergo bifurcations. Close to the bifurcation the semiclassical formula diverges. More interestingly, in the example studied, after the bifurcation, where more than one trajectory satisfying the boundary conditions exist, only one of them in fact contributes to the semiclassical formula, a phenomenon closely related to Stokes lines. When the contributions of these trajectories are filtered out, the semiclassical results show excellent agreement with the exact calculations.
,   The interaction of poly[(G-C)] and poly[d(G-m5C)] with the antitumor antibiotic elsamicin A, which binds to alternating guanine + cytosine tracts in DNA, has been studied under the B and Z conformations. Both the rate and the extent of the B-to-Z transition are diminished by the antibiotic, as inferred by spectroscopic methods under ionic conditions that otherwise favor the left-handed conformation of the polynucleotides. Moreover, elsamicin converts the Z-form DNA back to the B-form. The circular dichroism data indicate that elsamicin binds to poly[d(G-C)] and poly[d(G-m5C)] to form a right-handed bound elsamicin region(s). The transition can be followed by changes of the molar ellipticity at 250 nm, thus providing a convenient wavelength to monitor the Z-to-B conformational change of the polymers as elsamicin is added. The elsamicin A effect might be explained by a model in which the antibiotic binds preferently to a B-form DNA, playing a role as an allosteric effector on the equilibrium between the B and Z conformations, thus favoring the right-handed one.
,   Several lines of evidence suggest that the X chromosome plays a large role in intrinsic postzygotic isolation. The role of the Z chromosome in speciation is much less understood. To explore the role of the Z chromosome in reproductive isolation, we studied nucleotide variation in two closely related bird species, the Thrush Nightingale (Luscinia luscinia) and the Common Nightingale (L. megarhynchos). These species are isolated by incomplete prezygotic isolation and female hybrid sterility. We sequenced introns of four Z-linked and eight autosomal loci and analyzed patterns of polymorphism and divergence using a divergence-with-gene flow framework. Our results suggest that the nightingale species diverged approximately 1.8 Mya. We found strong evidence of gene flow after divergence in both directions, although more introgression occurred from L. megarhynchos into L. luscinia. Gene flow was significantly higher on the autosomes than on the Z chromosome. Our results support the idea that the Z chromosome plays an important role in intrinsic postzygotic isolation in birds, although it may also contribute to the evolution of prezygotic isolation through sexual selection. This highlights the similarities in the genetic basis of reproductive isolation between organisms with heterogametic males and organisms with heterogametic females during the early stages of speciation.
,   The use of Z-plasties in the closure of elliptical or circular defects is not uncommon. We present a patient in whom a double Z-plasty was performed in order to close a sacral pressure sore. The patient returned 21 years later seeking aesthetic improvements of the resultant obliteration of the natal cleft and the soft tissue and skin redundancy in the central inferior aspect of the buttocks. We met this challenge with a practical solution. The triangular flaps of the Z-plasties were returned to their original positions. This resulted in a natural shortening of the central portion of the buttock and the recreation of the natal cleft. The postoperative result was aesthetically pleasing. We report this unusual case and discuss the geometry behind the reversal of the Z-plasties as the solution to this problem. In addition, a novel interpretation of Z-plasties is presented.
,   The complete series of regioisomeric dimethoxybenzoyl-N-methylpiperazines were synthesized and evaluated in GC-MS and FTIR studies. The EI mass spectra show fragment ions characteristic of both the dimethoxybenzoyl and the N-methylpiperazine portions of the molecules. These characteristic fragments include the dimethoxybenzoyl cation at m/z 165 as well as the m/z 99 N-methylpiperazine cation and the low mass cation species at m/z 56 (C3H6 N(+)) and the m/z 70 ion (C4H8N(+)). Unique radical cations characteristic for the benzoyl-N-methylpiperazines were observed at m/z 83 (C5H9 N(+)) and m/z 207 (C11H13NO3(+)) Deuterium labeling experiments were used to characterize the mechanism of formation of these fragment ions. Attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy provides direct confirmatory data for the differentiation between the six regioisomeric aromatic ring substituted dimethoxybenzoyl-N-methylpiperazines. Gas chromatographic separation of this series of compounds was accomplished on an Rtx-200 stationary phase and relative retention appears related to the degree of steric crowding of the aromatic ring substituents. The most crowded patterns of substitution elute first while the more symmetrical 1-, 3-, 5-substitution pattern has the highest retention time. 
,   All stereoisomers of three diepoxyalkenes derived from (3Z,6Z,9Z)-trienes with a C21, C19, or C18 straight chain, lymantriid sex pheromones and their candidates, were synthesized by MCPBA oxidation of optically active epoxyalkadienes. Their chromatographic behaviors were examined with GC and LC equipped with achiral and chiral columns. Detailed inspection of the mass spectra of these epoxides indicated the following diagnostic ions for determining the chemical structures: m/z 128, 167, M-87 and M-85 for (Z)-cis-3,4-cis-6,7-diepoxy-9-enes; m/z 111, M-125 and M-69 for (Z)-cis-6,7-cis-9,10-diepoxy-3-enes; and m/z M-125 and M-139 for (Z)-cis-3,4-cis-9,10-diepoxy-6-enes. Mass chromatographic analysis that monitored these fragment ions revealed the existence of a new pheromonal compound with a C21 chain in an extract from virgin females of a lymantriid species, Perina nuda F. The three diepoxyalkenes were converted into the corresponding DMDS adducts, which showed characteristic ions from fragmentation between the two thiomethyl groups, reflecting the position of an original double bond.
,   1. Human alpha1-antitrypsin was isolated from three Pi M and two Pi Z subjects without alteration of its microheterogeneity. The purified proteins were labelled with either 125I or 131I by a lactoperoxidase method. 2. The disappearance rate of two types of alpha1-antitrypsin were studied after simultaneous injection of labelled M-protein and Z-protein into Pi M subjects. 3. The ratio of extravascular to plasma pools of alpha1-antitrypsin ranged between 1-2 and 1-6 with no difference between M- and Z-protein. The mean fractional catabolic rates of M-protein and Z-protein were respectively 0-26 and 0-40 per day. 4. The difference in catabolic rate of Z- and of M-protein is too small to explain why the alpha1-antitrypsin content of the blood in Pi ZZ subjects is only 15% of that normally found in Pi MM subjects. The low alpha1-antitrypsin in Pi ZZ subjects appears mainly to be due to a low rate of biosynthesis.
,   The severity of various surgical stresses was classified quantitatively on the basis of degree of adrenocortical stimulation by ACTH-Z. Urinary 17-OHCS (total, free and individual fractions) were dtermined in sixteen patients who underwent various operations and were injected some doses of ACTH-Z. The following quantitative classification of surgical stress was possible. In the group of ureterolithotomy and pyeloithotomy, the severity of operative stress appeared to be equivalent to the adrenocortical stimulation caused by injection of 0.125 mg to 0.25 mg of ACTH-Z. The severity in the group of ureterotomia externa was nearly the same as that in the above group. In the group of nephrectomy by oblique incision, the severity of stress appeared to correspond to the stimulation by injection of 0.25 mg or more of ACTH-Z. The group of total nephroureterectomy with partial cystectomy showed the severity which would correspond to the degree of stimulation by injection of about 0.5 mg ACTH-Z, and the group of transperitoneal nephrectomy, by injection of 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg of ACTH-Z.
,   Nitrofuran AF-2 displayed greater inhibitory effect than did nitrofuran Z when a mixed bacterial culture, including several proteolytic bacteria, isolated from shrimp was subjected to these compounds in vitro. Nitrofuran Z exhibited greater bactericidal properties than did chlortetracycline in all cultures used. Only 10 mug of nitrofuran AF-2 per ml was sufficient to inhibit the growth of mixed bacteria in nutrient broth, whereas 50 mug of nitrofuran Z per ml was necessary to accomplish the same inhibition. A 50-mug amount of chlortetracycline per ml displayed about the same inhibitory effect as either 10 mug of AF-2 per ml or 20 mug of Z per ml. The isolated proteolytic bacteria showed greater suppression of growth when subjected to AF-2 than when subjected to Z; however, both nitrofurans were effective in preventing growth. The addition of either 1 mug of AF-2 per ml or 5 mug of Z per ml to nutrient broth inhibited the growth of Achromobacter aquarmarinus, whereas chlortetracycline was less effective, requiring about 20 mug to suppress growth to the same degree.
,   Biomolecule labeling by fluorescent markers has emerged as an innovative methodology for bio-analytical purposes in food microbiology, medicine and pharmaceutics due to the great advantages of this method such as precision, wide detection limits, and in vivo recognition. Fluorescent nisin Z was synthesized by linking the carboxyl group and amino group of nisin Z and 5-aminoacetamido fluorescein (AAA-flu). This new structure was fully characterized by mass spectrometry with a molecular weight of 3717.3 Da. Intracellular K(+) leakage and transmembrane electrical potential (Δψ) were used to evaluate the antibacterial action of the labeled molecule against three listerial strains and demonstrated that nisin Z endured the labeling process without any activity loss. In vivo activity of labeled nisin was observed by confocal laser microscope which revealed its localization at the septum of listerial cell division site where the membrane-bound cell wall precursor lipid II is maximal. Fluorescent nisin Z showed its great potential as a tool to study antibacterial mechanism of action of nisin in biological systems.
,   Macular pigment (MP) levels correlate with brain concentrations of lutein (L) and zeaxanthin (Z), and have also been shown to correlate with cognitive performance in the young and elderly.investigate the relationship between MP, serum concentrations of L and Z, and cognitive function in subjects free of retinal disease with low MP (Group 1, n = 105) and in subjects with AMD (Group 2, n = 121).was measured using customized heterochromatic flicker photometry and dual-wavelength autofluorescence; cognitive function was assessed using a battery of validated cognition tests; serum L and Z concentrations were determined by HPLC.nificant correlations were evident between MP and various measures of cognitive function in both groups (r = -0.273 to 0.261, p≤0.05, for all). Both serum L and Z concentrations correlated significantly (r = 0.187, p≤0.05 and r = 0.197, p≤0.05, respectively) with semantic (animal) fluency cognitive scores in Group 2 (the AMD study group), while serum L concentrations also correlated significantly with Verbal Recognition Memory learning slope scores in the AMD study group (r = 0.200, p = 0.031). Most of the correlations with MP, but not serum L or Z, remained significant after controlling for age, gender, diet, and education level.offers potential as a non-invasive clinical biomarker of cognitive health, and appears more successful in this role than serum concentrations of L or Z.
,   Using a dialysis method we have measured the hydrogen exchange (HX) kinetics in poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC), poly(dG-m5dC).poly(dG-m5dC), poly(dG-br5dC).poly(dG-br5dC) and platinated poly(dA-br5dC).poly(dG-dT) under experimental conditions in which these polymers adopt the Z-conformation. The latter polymer has one slow exchanging proton with a half-time of about 2 h, whereas the other G-C alternating polymers display a slow class of two protons with exchange half-time of about 6 h. These exchange half-times are independent of ionic strength and of the nature of the salt for all these polymers in the Z-form. The slow proton exchange appears to be strongly correlated to the Z-conformation but rather independent of the Z-DNA sequence. The comparison of the proton exchange rates with the corresponding B in equilibrium Z transition rates is not in favour of the same rate limiting step for both processes.
,   (dG-dC)n.(dG-dC) was converted to the Z conformer by heating in the presence of Mn++n. Reaction of this preparation with the crosslinking reagent, DL-diepoxybutane (DEB), stabilized this conformer so that it retained its structure even when returned to conditions that favored reversion to the B conformation. Treatment of the crosslinked Z conformer with periodate caused scission of the crosslink, allowing reversion to the B conformer. Reaction of (dG-dC)n.(dG-dC)n in the B conformation with DEB did not prevent conversion to the Z conformer in 4M NaC1; dialysis of the high salt solution against low ionic strength buffer allowed return to the B conformer. The Z in equilibrium B transitions were followed by circular dichroism studies and immunochemical procedures. The results suggest the feasibility of stabilizing Z sequences of DNA in chromatin by crosslinking, so that they could then be identified after DNA isolation.
,   The cancer drug daunomycin is an effective inhibitor of the B leads to Z transition in poly d(G-C) in 4 M NaCl. Both the rate and extent of the B leads to Z transition are decreased by the drug, as judged by equilibrium and kinetic studies. Daunomycin can, under some conditions, convert Z form DNA back to B form. Drug binding to poly d(G-C) in 4 M NaCl is slow and highly cooperative, consistent with a role for daunomycin as an allosteric effector on the B leads to Z equilibrium. Since daunomycin binds preferentially to alternating purine-pyrimidine sequences, which are the very sequences capable of undergoing the B leads to Z transition, these effects may be an important part of the mechanism by which the drug inhibits transcription and replication.
,   Incubation of trans-diethylstilbestrol (E-DES) with prostaglandin synthase (PGS) in vitro leads to the formation of the metabolites cis, cis-dienestrol (Z,Z-DIES) and cis-diethylstilbestrol (Z-DES) which have considerably decreased estrogenic activity compared to their parent compound. Incubations of (14C)-E-DES with PGS in the presence of arachidonic acid (AA) predominantly catalyze formation of the oxidative metabolite Z,Z-DIES, accompanied by the formation of protein bound radioactivity. Inhibition of peroxidative metabolism through addition of indomethacin or absence of AA favors isomerization of E-DES to Z-DES without concomitant formation of protein bound radioactivity. Isomerization is inhibited by phenidone (1-phenyl-3-pyrazolidone). Since PGS activity is present in uterine tissue, these pathways may play a role in the metabolism of DES in its target tissue.
,   Several authors have studied or used the following estimation strategy for meta-analysing correlations: obtain a point estimate or confidence interval for the mean Fisher z correlation, and transform this estimate to the Pearson r metric. Using the relationship between Fisher z and Pearson r random variables, I demonstrate the potential discrepancy induced by directly z-to-r transforming a mean correlation parameter. Point and interval estimators based on an alternative integral z-to-r transformation are proposed. Analytic expressions for the expectation and variance of certain meta-analytic point estimators are also provided, as are selected moments of correlation parameters; numerical examples are included. In an application of these analytic results, the proposed point estimator outperformed its usual direct z-to-r counterpart and compared favourably with an estimator based on Pearson r correlations. Practical implications, extensions of the proposed estimators, and uses for the analytic results are discussed.
,   Brominated poly(dG-dC) . poly(dG-dC), which forms a stable Z-DNA helix under physiological salt conditions, was used as an antigen to produce monoclonal antibodies from mice. The anti-Z-DNA antibodies were specific for the Z conformation as was shown by direct binding studies and a competitive solid phase assay. Competition could only be seen by brominated poly(dG-dC) . poly(dG-dC) under low and high salt conditions and unmodified poly(dG-dC) . poly(dG-dC) under high salt conditions. No binding could be seen to a number of other polynucleotides, including native and denatured DNA. Among the anti-Z-DNA monoclonal antibodies, examples differed in specificity: binding of one monoclonal antibody was blocked by methylation of cytosine; whereas the other antibody reacted equally well with the unmodified polymer or methyl cytosine-containing polymer in high ionic strength. The two antibodies are specific for different localized features of Z-DNA structure.
,   Thioacetylacetone and its variously deuterated isotopomers have been investigated using electronic and vibrational spectroscopy combined with quantum chemical calculations. Thioacetylacetone is known for its photochromic properties, but the structures of the initial and final forms have been the subject of a long debate. Analysis of the IR spectra recorded in low-temperature argon and xenon matrices, room-temperature solutions, and in the gas phase has allowed us to establish the nature of the photochromic species and of its precursor. Similar to the case of another beta-thioxoketone, monothiodibenzoylmethane, the photo-product has been assigned to the nonchelated SH exo-rotamer of the (Z)-enethiol tautomeric form, whereas the dominant ground-state species corresponds to the chelated (Z)-enol tautomeric form. Detailed vibrational assignments have been proposed for both forms based on quantum chemical calculations and polarization experiments. In the case of the chelated (Z)-enol species prevailing in the ground state, a second-order perturbative anharmonic analysis at the B3LYP/cc-pVTZ level indicated strong anharmonic effects associated with the intramolecular hydrogen bond, leading to a shift of more than 600 cm-1 of the wavenumber of the OH-stretching vibration. A small fraction of the SH endo-rotameric chelated (Z)-enethiol form was also detected under unperturbed conditions. The (Z)-enethiol form can be converted into the (Z)-enol form by irradiation at 290 nm.
,   The 5S, 12S-dihydroxy-6,8,10,14-(E,Z,E,Z,)-eicosatetraenoic acid, a product of double dioxygenation of arachidonic acid by lipoxygenases, undergoes severe decomposition during gas chromatography-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) analysis of the trimethylsilyl ether methyl ester derivative. The decomposition product was studied by GC-MS and identified as a cyclohexadiene derivative of the parent compound formed by ring closure at C6 and C11. Under identical GC conditions, two stereoisomers, i.e. 5S,12R-dihydroxy-6,8,10,14-(Z,E,E,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid (leukotriene B4), and 6-trans-leukotriene B4 showed excellent chromatographic properties. These data indicated that the 5,12-dihydroxy derivative of arachidonic acid carrying the trans-cis-trans triene unit selectively undergoes cyclization during GC. These studies also provided an explanation to the controversial GC-MS data reported for this lipoxygenase product.
,   In the family of 1-Z-R-D,L-xylitol, we have determined the main amphiphilic properties of esters (Z = OCO) as a function of alkyl chain length (R = CnH2n+1, n = 4-17). A classical decrease of critical micelle concentration with the increase in the alkyl chain has been found. With water, esters displayed lamellar phases at temperatures of 25 degrees C or higher. The extent of hydrophilic/lipophilic balance range obtained by emulsification method can be proven to be of interest for pharmaceutical applications. The results were compared with those obtained in previous investigations, i.e. for alkyl-substituted xylitol, with thioether (Z=S) and ether (Z=O) linking groups in order to discuss the role of the junction nature. Likewise, they were compiled with the results related to their D-glucose homologues, in order to put forward the effects of the head group configuration, cyclic or acyclic.
,   The dependence of initial rate v0 of ATP--PPi exchange reaction catalyzed by RNA-ligase of bacteriophage T4 on the concentration of ATP(s), pyrophosphate (z) and Mgcl2 has been determined. The dependence of v0 on s and z described by the equation v0 = k-1k2E0/(k-1 + K2) (1 + K1/s + k2/z) has been obtained for the reaction of E + S in equilibrium ES in equilibrium E1 + Z, where E--enzyme, E1--adenylylenzyme, S--ATP, Z--pyrophosphate, K1 and K2--constants of equilibrium, k-1, k2--velocity constants of transition of ES to E + S and E1 + Z, E0--complete concentration of enzyme. The low inhibition of the ATP--PPi exchange by the acceptor A(pA)2 and donors pAp, p(Ap)3, pCp has been shown. The dependence of v0 on the concentration of MgCl2 is consent with the incorporation of only dimagnesium salts of substrates in the isotope-exchange reaction.
,   The conformation of an acyclic dehydrophenylalanine (delta Z-Phe) containing hexapeptide, Boc-Phe-delta Z-Phe-Val-Phe-delta Z-Phe-Val-OMe, has been investigated in CDCl3 and (CD3)2SO by 270-MHz 1H-nmr. Studies of NH group solvent accessibility and observation of interresidue nuclear Overhauser effects (NOEs) suggest a significant solvent-dependent conformational variability. In CDCl3, a population of folded helical conformations is supported by the inaccessibility to solvent of the NH groups of residues 3-6 and the detection of several NiH----Ni + 1H NOEs. Evidence is also obtained for conformational heterogeneity from the detection of some Ci alpha H----Ni + 1H NOEs characteristic of extended strands. In (CD3)2SO, the peptide largely favors an extended conformation, characterized by five solvent-exposed NH groups and successive Ci alpha H----Ni + 1H NOEs for the L-residues and Ci beta H----Ni + 1H NOEs for the delta Z-Phe residues. The results suggest that delta Z-Phe residues do not provide compelling conformational constraints.
,   The link between thrombosis and cancer has been well established. Levels of protein Z and thrombomodulin indirectly regulate thrombin productionl and therefore may affect cancer susceptibility. functional polymorphisms -13A/G and -33G/A in protein Z and thrombomodulin genes (respectively) influence transcription. The two polymorphisms were investigated in 160 oral cancer patients and 168 controls of equivalent age, gender and ethnicity using restriction fragment length polymorphism typing. frequency of the -13G allele, which results in lower expression of protein Z gene, was not significantly elevated in patients compared to controls (8.1% and 6.3%, respectively; odds ratio 1.35, 95% confidence interval 0.72-2.56). No carriers of the thrombomodulin low expression -33A allele were identified, underscoring the rarity of this allele in Caucasians.erited predisposition affecting protein Z or thrombomodulin levels does not modulate susceptibility to oral cancer. Any possible contribution of thrombin to oral oncogenesis may involve other factors.
,   This work describes investigation of the fragmentation mechanism of tryptophan N-indolyl radical cation, H3N(+)-TrpN(•) (m/z 204) studied via DFT calculations and several gas-phase experimental techniques. The main fragment ion at m/z 131, shown to be a mixture of up to four isomers including 3-methylindole (3MI) π-radical cation, was found to undergo further loss of an H atom to yield one of the two isomeric m/z 130 ions. 3-Methylindole radical cation generated independently (via CID of [Cu(II)(terpy)3MI](•2+)) displayed gas-phase reactivity partially similar to that of the m/z 131 fragment, further confirming our proposed mechanism. CID of deuterated tryptophan N-indolyl radical cation (m/z 208) suggested that up to six H atoms are involved in the pathway to formation of the m/z 131 ion, consistent with hydrogen atom scrambling during CID of protonated Trp.
,   A simple, rapid assay for measuring anti-DNA titre of serum which includes anti-Z-DNA is described. The assay involves solution binding of antibody to labelled DNA under conditions such that the DNA is altered to form a left-handed or Z-DNA structure in the presence of cobalt ions. The absence or presence of cobalt determines a B or Z form structure in DNA and antibodies to these forms are detectable. The majority of SLE and RA patients (88%) have a higher anti-DNA titre in the presence of cobalt ions. An additional 25% of SLE patients and 22/23 RA patients who had normal anti-DNA levels according to the Crithidea assay, reacted with abnormal titres in our assay. Patients experiencing a relapse in SLE also showed a large increase in anti-DNA in the presence of antigenic Z-DNA. These results suggest that monitoring anti-DNA levels in SLE and RA to detect anti-Z DNA antibodies, provides significant advantages over methods currently in use to measure anti-DNA antibodies.
,   The present paper describes theoretical and experimental bases for quantitation of the oxygen level inside a single isolated ventricular rat myocyte. We applied three-wavelength microspectrophotometry to a single cardiomyocyte, where the sensitivity of the spectrophotometry was augmented by a digital image processing technique known as video-enhanced microscopy. Oxygen-dependent changes in light absorption of the intracellular pigments were detected and represented with the use of a newly defined variable, Z, where one pixel of the reconstructed cell image corresponded to 0.2 microns. Theoretically, Z is a single-valued function of the fractional oxygen saturation of the intracellular pigment. We demonstrated in quiescent cardiomyocytes that Z changed according to extracellular PO2, where the relationship was sigmoidal with the extracellular PO2 for a half-maximal Z of 3.2 Torr. In the aerobic cell, conversion of cytochromes to the reduced forms by NaCN did not affect Z value. Therefore, we conclude that Z mainly represents the fractional oxygen saturation of myoglobin, thus reporting cytosolic PO2. We also demonstrated that for extracellular PO2 of 1.3 Torr, abolition of mitochondrial oxygen consumption by NaCN significantly elevated the intracellular oxygen level, suggesting existence of oxygen pressure gradients in a quiescent single cardiomyocyte that were proportional to oxygen flux.
,   Recently, nanoparticles have been considered as a method of providing radiation dose enhancement in tumors. In order to quantify this affect, a dose enhancement factor (DEF) is defined that represents the ratio of the dose deposited in tumor with nanoparticles, divided by the dose deposited in the tumor without nanoparticles. Materials with atomic numbers (Z) ranging from 25 to 90 are considered in this analysis. In addition, the energy spectrum for a number of external beam x-ray sources and common radionuclides are evaluated. For a nanoparticle concentration of 5 mg/ml, the DEF is < 1.05 for Co-60, Ir-192, Au-198, Cs-137, 6, 18, and 25 MV x-rays for all materials considered. However, relatively large increases in the DEF are observed for 50, 80, 100, and 140 KVp x-rays as well as Pd-103 and I-125. The DEF increases for all sources as Z varies from 25-35. From Z = 40-60, the DEF plateaus or slightly decreases. For higher Z materials (Z>70), the DEF increases and is a maximum for the highest Z materials. High atomic number nanoparticles coupled with low energy external beam x-rays or brachytherapy sources offer the potential of significantly enhancing the delivered dose.
,   Interspecific hybridization has been proposed as a possible explanation for the incredible diversity seen in reef-dwelling corals, but until now little proof of such hybridization in other reef-dwelling anthozoans has been reported. Without further observation of hybridization, the question of such a phenomenon being widespread in Anthozoa remains. Here we have examined the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene (COI) and the nuclear internal transcribed spacer of ribosomal DNA (ITS-rDNA) from three species of the mass-spawning, encrusting anemone genus Zoanthus (Z. sansibaricus, Z. kuroshio, Z. gigantus) to investigate possible hybridization. The three species coexist at two of three sampling locations in southern Japan. Zoanthus spp. ITS-rDNA region spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) were shown to have very high rates of divergence. At locations where all three species co-existed, several of our sampled Z. sansibaricus individuals (with identical "sansi" COI sequences) possessed two very divergent (i.e., species-level difference) ITS-rDNA alleles, the expected "sansi" allele and the divergent "B" allele. Additionally, two Z. sansibaricus individuals possessed only "B" alleles despite having "sansi" COI sequences. These results indicate that Z. sansibaricus has possibly experienced interspecific hybridization at least once with a Zoanthus partner possessing the "B" allele, and that these resulting hybrids may also sexually reproduce, demonstrating potential hybridization occurring in the order Zoantharia (Hexacorallia).
,   Sex-bias in natal dispersal patterns can have important genetic and evolutionary consequences; however, reliable information about sex-biased dispersal can be difficult to obtain with observational methods. We analysed the sex-specific patterns of genetic differentiation among three Siberian jay (Perisoreus infaustus) populations, using 11 autosomal and six Z-chromosomal microsatellite markers. Irrespective of marker-type and indices used (viz. F(ST), average pairwise relatedness and effective number of immigrants), all analyses provided strong evidence for male-biased dispersal. Population structuring at autosomal loci (F(ST)  =0.046, P<0.05) exceeded that at Z-chromosomal loci (F(ST) =0.033, P<0.05), and levels of introgression were inferred to be significantly higher for Z-chromosomal when compared to autosomal loci. Of the three populations studied, levels of genetic variability were the lowest in the southernmost fringe population, despite the fact that it harboured a group of divergent Z-chromosomal haplotypes that were not found in the other two populations. In general, the results provide strong genetic evidence for male-biased dispersal in Siberian jays, where observational data have previously suggested male philopatry. The results also highlight the utility of Z-chromosomal markers for gaining insights into the genetic diversity and structuring of populations.
,   We study the effects of an interaction range on the gas-liquid phase diagram and the crossover behavior of a simple model of ionic fluids: an equimolar binary mixture of equisized hard spheres interacting through screened Coulomb potentials which are repulsive between particles of the same species and attractive between particles of different species. Using the collective variables theory, we find explicit expressions for the relevant coefficients of the effective φ{4} Ginzburg-Landau Hamiltonian in a one-loop approximation. Within the framework of this approximation, we calculate the critical parameters and gas-liquid phase diagrams for varying inverse screening length z. Both the critical temperature scaled by the Yukawa potential contact value and the critical density rapidly decrease with an increase of the interaction range (a decrease of z) and then for z<0.05 they slowly approach the values found for a restricted primitive model (RPM). We find that gas-liquid coexistence region reduces with an increase of z and completely vanishes at z≃2.78. Our results clearly show that an increase in the interaction range leads to a decrease of the crossover temperature. For z≃0.01, the crossover temperature is the same as for the RPM.
,   Electrospray ionization spectra of positive multiply charged ions of several proteins with molecular weight from 8565 to 339,100 u were recorded at different pressures of residual gas in the vacuum chamber of an electrospray time-of-flight mass spectrometer. The pressure was varied in the range (0.2 to 5) × 10(-6) torr. The effect of pressure was found to be significant even for the lightest protein investigated (ubiquitin), which resulted in a decrease of both sensitivity and resolution. Investigations of the arrival-time distributions and the energy distributions of ions showed that collision-induced dissociation (CID) of the protein ions in the drift region is the main process responsible for the effect. Several CID cross sections of proteins were estimated from a series of mass spectra recorded at different pressures in the reflecting mode: 1150 Å(2) for cytochrome c (averaged over charge states z = 14-18), 800 Å(2) for lysozyme (z = 8-10), 1840 Å(2) for apomyoglobin (z = 12-25), 800 Å(2) for holomyoglobin (z = 8), and 2500 Å(2) for carbonic anhydrase II (z = 22-35). Several experiments with large proteins in their native conformations and low charge states (m/z 0,000) demonstrate that these ions are less sensitive to high residual gas pressure. 
,   Gel-filtration is commonly used to remove contaminants from conventional actin prepared by the method of Spudich and Watt. It has been shown that this procedure removes the majority of a factor that reduces the low-shear viscosity of actin. We have previously reported that this factor is Cap Z, a barbed end capping protein. We now establish that, even after gel-filtration, enough Cap Z can be present in conventionally prepared actin to affect events occurring at the barbed ends of actin filaments. We also demonstrate that the concentration of Cap Z can be reduced to more than a log below the KD for binding of Cap Z to actin by either 1) immunoabsorbtion of conventionally prepared actin with anti-Cap Z antibodies, or 2) an additional cycle of polymerization/depolymerization followed by repeat gel-filtration.
,   Cysteine proteinases were tested for their suitability as targets for chemotherapy of sleeping sickness using the peptidyl inhibitor Z-Phe-Ala-diazomethyl ketone (Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2). In vitro, the inhibitory concentration of Z-Phe-Ala-CHN;2 required to reduce the growth rate by 50% was 400 times lower for culture-adapted bloodstream forms of Trypanosoma brucei than for a mouse myeloma cell line. At an inhibitor concentration of 10;M the parasites were lysed within 48 h of incubation. Parasitemia of mice infected with T. brucei decreased to undetectable levels for 3 days following treatment with 250 mg/kg Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2 on days 3 to 6 after infection. Although parasitemia returned thereafter to control levels, infected mice treated with the inhibitor survived approximately twice as long as those treated with placebo. Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2 inhibited proteinolysis in lysosomes in vitro and almost completely blocked cysteine proteinase activity in vivo. The results demonstrate the importance of cysteine proteinase activity for survival of T. brucei and suggest that such activity is an appropriate target for antitrypanosomal chemotherapy.
,   We report the study of five independent X-linked hydrocephalus (HSAS1) families with polymorphic DNA markers of the Xq28 region. A total of 58 individuals, including 7 living affected males and 22 obligate carriers, have been studied. Maximum lod score was 7.21 at theta = 2.40% for DXS52 (St14-1). A single recombination event was observed between this marker and the HSAS1 locus. Other markers studied were DXS296 (Z = 2.02 at theta = 2.5%), DXS304 (Z = 4.37 at theta = 7.8%), DXS74 (Z = 3.50 at theta = 0%), DXS15 (Z = 1.96 at theta = 5.7%), DXS134 (Z = 3.31 at theta = 0%), and F8C (Z = 5.79 at theta = 0%). These data confirm the localization of the HSAS1 gene to Xq28 and provide evidence for genetic homogeneity of this syndrome. In addition, examination of two obligate recombinant meioses along with multipoint linkage analysis supports the distal localization of the HSAS1 locus with respect to the DXS52 cluster. These observations are of potential interest for future studies aimed at HSAS1 gene characterization.
,   Surface albedo (α) and aerodynamic roughness length (z(0)), which partition surface net radiation into energy fluxes, are critical land surface properties for biosphere-atmosphere interactions and climate variability. Previous studies suggested that canopy structure parameters influence both α and z(0); however, no field data have been reported to quantify their relationships. Here, we hypothesize that a functional relationship between α and z(0) exists for a vegetated surface, since both land surface parameters can be conceptually related to the characteristics of canopy structure. We test this hypothesis by using the observed data collected from 50 site-years of field measurements from sites worldwide covering various vegetated surfaces. On the basis of these data, a negative linear relationship between α and log(z(0)) was found, which is related to the canopy structural parameter. We believe that our finding is a big step toward the estimation of z(0) with high accuracy. This can be used, for example, in the parameterization of land properties and the observation of z(0) using satellite remote sensing.
,   Poly[d(G-m5C)] was modified by reductively activated mitomycin C, an anti-tumour drug, under buffer conditions which are known to favour either the B or the Z conformations of DNA. C.d. and 31P-n.m.r. were used to characterize the poly[d(G-m5C)]-mitomycin cross-linked complexes, as well as the effects on the equilibrium between the B and Z forms of the polynucleotide. Mitomycin C appears to inhibit the B-->Z transition, even in the presence of 3 mM MgCl2, while the Z-form of poly[d(G-m5C)] does not interact significantly with the drug under bifunctionally activating conditions; thus no reversion from the Z-form to the B-form of the polynucleotide can be observed under the salt conditions which are required for the Z-form to exist.
,   This study sought to evaluate the timing of burn-associated polyneuropathy (BAPN) and its relationship to burn severity or size. Seventeen burned subjects were studied 1 wk after thermal burns. Eleven subjects remained in the study to complete 6-wk follow-up studies. Nerve conduction studies were done on at least three nerves in two unburned limbs; results were numerically summarized by calculating Z scores for each parameter. A composite Z score, termed Ztotal, measured global nerve function. One week postburn, motor and sensory distal latencies were prolonged (mean Z, -0.72 and -0.85, respectively), motor conduction velocities slowed (mean Z, -1.31) and sensory nerve action potentials reduced in amplitude (mean Z, -0.66). Associations of Ztotal scores with total burn surface area and depth were not statistically significant. Those with severe neuropathy had higher levels of c-reactive protein (Spearman correlation, -0.624; P = 0.0129). There were no significant changes in Z scores at 6 wk. We conclude that BAPN is common after thermal injury, and the electrophysiologic manifestations of BAPN are present within the first week. Thermal injuries may induce an inflammatory cascade that results in alterations of nerve function.
,   In Japan, a light scattering type digital dust monitor is most commonly used for dust concentration measurement in a working environment. In this study, the calibration factors of a digital dust monitor (K-factor) for several welding fumes were measured in a laboratory. During the experiment, fumes were generated from CO2 arc welding performed by an automatic welding robot. The examined welding wires were JIS Z 3312, Z 3313, Z 3315, Z 3317 and Z 3320. The mass and relative concentrations of the welding fumes were measured simultaneously by a total/respirable (TR) dust sampler and a digital dust monitor at a welding current of 100 A, 150 A, 200 A, 250 A and 300 A. The particle size distributions of welding fumes were measured by a low pressure impactor at a welding current of 100 A and 300 A. A significant effect of the welding current on the K-factor was recognized for all the examined wires. In the most remarkable case, a four-fold difference in the K-factors was found when the fumes were generated from a flux cored wire for mild steel (JIS Z 3313). The particle size distributions of fumes were also affected by the welding current. The coefficients of variation in the measured K-factor were 7.8-40.5%.
,   A discrete growth model with a restricted curvature constraint is investigated by measuring both the surface width and the height difference correlation function. In our model, where an extremal height is suppressed, the surface width W shows the roughness exponent alpha approximately 0.561 and the dynamics exponent z approximately 1.69 in one substrate dimension. However the correlation function has an unusual scaling behavior and produces different wandering exponent alpha(') approximately 1.33 and its dynamic exponent z(') approximately 4. The discrepancy is due to the fact that the correlation length increases with a power law t(1/z(')) until it reaches the value proportional to Ldelta at time t(s) approximately L(z), where L is the system size and delta is the "window exponent" satisfying the relation delta=z/z(')=alpha/alpha('). delta is a new exponent to characterize the window size of the system.
,   The mobility of (15)N labeled proteins can be characterized by measuring the cross-correlation rates delta(N,NI) that govern the conversion of Zeeman order N(z) of an amide (15)N nucleus into longitudinal two-spin order 2N(z)I(z) involving the amide (15)N and (1)H nuclei. This represents an alternative to the measurement of (15)N self-relaxation rates 1/T(1) and 1/T(2) or 1/T(1rho). The rate of interconversion between N(z) and 2N(z)I(z) is due to cross-correlation between fluctuations of different interactions and is not affected by a variety of relaxation mechanisms that contribute to the self-relaxation rates 1/T(1), 1/T(2) and 1/T(1rho). Spin diffusion among protons, which affects the measurements, can be quenched by various means that are evaluated by experiments and simulations. By applying an off-resonance radio-frequency (RF) field in the vicinity of the nitrogen resonance, the spectral density function J(omega) can be determined at the frequency origin and at the nitrogen Larmor frequency. The methods are applied to the paramagnetic High-Potential Iron-Sulfur Protein iso I (HiPIP I) from E. halophila in its reduced state.
,   Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) contributes to the development of breast cancers and malignancies. On the other hand, engineered affibody Z(HER2:342) that binds to HER2 can be successfully used for both diagnostic purposes and specific ablation of malignant HER2-positive cell lines. In the current study, electrostatics-based prediction was applied for improving Z(HER2:342) binding affinity using computational design. The affibody Z(HER2:342) alone and in complex with HER2 was energetically minimized, solvated in explicit water, and neutralized. After heating and equilibration steps, the system was studied by isothermal-isobaric (NPT) MD simulation. According to trajectories, Z(HER2:342) specifically binds to HER2 through hydrogen bonds and salt bridges. Based on the electrostatic binding contributions, two affinity-matured variants namely V1 (Tyr35Arg) and V2 (Asn6Asp and Met9Glu) were rationally designed. More investigations through MD simulation show that V1 interacts with HER2 receptor more strongly, compared to Z(HER2:342) and V2. 
,   Diagnostic and therapeutic injections of the zygapophyseal joint (z-joint) are routinely performed under radiologic guidance (eg, fluoroscopy, computed tomography). Technically, these procedures could also be completed using ultrasound guidance, but existing evidence insufficiently supports this alternative imaging method, and it cannot therefore be recommended as a standard practice. There has also been no published proof-of-concept study using a routine fluoroscopy control for ultrasound-guided z-joint injections.adaver study was performed to validate ultrasound as an imaging modality for z-joint injections. Fifty z-joint injections were performed on 5 nonembalmed specimens. In-plane ultrasound approach was implemented. Zygapophyseal joints were accessed through a needle placement under the joint capsule into the posterior synovial recess. Iohexol was thereby injected, and fluoroscopy was subsequently performed.44 (88%) of 50 performed injections, the intra-articular spread of the contrast agent was clearly observed on the fluoroscopy image. In 6 (12%) of 50 cases, the contrast flow appeared in the soft tissues. In 4 of the 6 failed injections, the z-joint gap was not evident on an ultrasound image. No intravascular, nerve root, or epidural injections were observed.rasound may be a viable alternative to fluoroscopy or computed tomography as a guidance method for lumbar z-joint injections.
,   (Z)-α-Santalol, which has a unique woody odor, is a main constituent of sandalwood essential oil. We investigated the structure-odor relationship of (Z)-α-santalol and its derivatives, focusing on the relationship between the structure of the side chain and the odor of the compounds. Various α-santalol derivatives (aldehydes, formates, and acetates) were synthesized from (Z)- and (E)-α-santalol, which were prepared from (+)-3-bromocamphor through modifications of a reported synthetic route. The Z- and E-isomers of α-santalols have different double-bond configurations in the side chain. Analogues with saturated side chains were also prepared from the corresponding α-santalols, and the odors of the all the prepared compounds were evaluated. We found that the odors of the Z-isomers (woody) were similar to those of the corresponding saturated compounds, but clearly different from the odors of the corresponding E-isomers (odorless, fresh, or fatty). These results indicate that the relative configuration of the side chain with respect to the santalane frame plays an important role in the odor of α-santalol. E-configuration in the side chain eliminates the woody odor character of α-santalol and its examined derivatives, whereas the Z-configuration or saturation of the carbon side chain does not.
,   The genomic sequence of the halophilic archaeon Halobacterium NRC-1 has been analyzed by the Z curve method. The Z curve is a three-dimensional curve that uniquely represents a given DNA sequence. Based on the known behaviors of the Z curves for the archaea whose replication origins have been identified, the analysis of the Z curve for the genome of Halobacterium NRC-1 strongly suggests that the large genome has two replication origins, oriC1 (921,863-922,014) and oriC2 (1,806,444-1,807,229), which are located at two sharp peaks of the Z curve. These two regions are next to the cdc6 genes and contain multiple copies of stretches of G and C, i.e., ggggtgggg and ccccacccc, which may also be regarded as direct and inverted repeats. Based on the above analysis, a model of replication of Halobacterium NRC-1 with two replication origins and two termini has been proposed. The experimental confirmation of this model would constitute the first example of multiple replication origins of archaea, which will finally provide much insight into the understanding of replication mechanisms of eukaryotic organisms, including human. In addition, the potential multiple replication origins of the archaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus are suggested by the analysis based on the Z curve method.
,   We investigated whether respiration influences pulmonary arterial input impedance during transition from inspiration to expiration in five anesthetized, spontaneously breathing dogs. Impedance (Z) was separately assessed for heart beats occurring in inspiration, in expiration, and during the transition from inspiration to expiration (transitional beat). Transitional beats were scored by the ratio between the fraction of beat falling in expiration and the total beat duration [expiratory fraction (Efr)] to quantify their position within the transition. In transitional beats, input resistance linearly increased with Efr; Z modulus at the heart-rate frequency (fHR) decreased up to -50% for Efr = 50%. Z phase at fHR was greater than in inspiration for Efr <40% and lower for Efr >50%. Unlike blood flow velocity, mean value and first harmonic of pulmonary arterial pressure were correlated to Efr and paralleled the changes of input resistance and Z at fHR. This indicates that respiration influences Z through modifications in arterial pressure. The evidence of important respiratory influences on Z function may help the pathophysiological interpretation of dysfunctions of the right heart pumping action, such as the so-called cor pulmonale.
,   DNA sequences capable of forming unusual secondary structures can be a source of genomic instability. In some cases that instability might be affected by transcription, as recently shown for the Z-DNA forming sequence (CG)(14), which causes genomic instability both in mammalian cells and in bacteria, and this effect increases with its transcription. We have investigated the effect of this (CG)(14) sequence on transcription with T7 RNA polymerase in vitro. We detected partial transcription blockage within the sequence; the blockage increased with negative supercoiling of the template DNA. This effect was not observed in a control self-complementary sequence of identical length and base composition as the (CG)(14) sequence, when the purine-pyrimidine alternation required for Z-DNA formation was disrupted. These findings suggest that the inhibitory effect on T7 transcription results from Z-DNA formation in the (CG)(14) sequence rather than from an effect of the sequence composition or from hairpin formation in either the DNA or the RNA product.
,   Trypsin-like proteinase isolated from human skin was localized in cutaneous mast cells using immunoperoxidase and enzyme-histochemical techniques. Skin biopsy specimens were taken from four mastocytoma and four healthy patients. Immunoperoxidase staining was performed with protein A-sepharose purified rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against human skin tryptase and using aminoethylcarbazole as chromogen. The positively stained cells in the dermis were granular in character. Using peptide 4-methoxy-2-naphthylamide substrates (Bz-Arg-MNA, Z-Lys-Arg-MNA, Z-Gly-Arg-MNA, Z-Pro-Arg-MNA and Z-Gly-Pro-Arg-MNA) and Fast Garnet GBC as chromogen the red azo dye was found to precipitate in the cytoplasmic granules of the cutaneous mast cells. The enzymatic reaction was totally inhibited by diisopropyl fluorophosphate, leupeptin, and benzamidine. No marked inhibition was seen with soybean trypsin inhibitor and alpha-1-anti-trypsin. The best substrate was Z-Gly-Pro-Arg-MNA giving the strongest red azo dye when incubation time was 15, 30 or 60 min. These results show the localization of human skin tryptase in dermal mast cells and the usefulness of Z-Gly-Pro-Arg-MNA as a suitable substrate tested for enzyme-histochemical localization of mast cells in healthy or mastocytoma skin.
,   We study dynamical scaling properties of the two-dimensional surface growth models with global constraints. These include the growth model from a partition function Z = sigma{(h(r)Pi(h = h)(min) (h(max)) 1/2 (1 + z (n(h))), multiparticle-correlated surface growth models and dissociative Q-mer growth models. The equilibrium surfaces of all the models except the dimer model show the same dynamical scaling behavior W2 (L,t) = (1/2piK(G)) ln [L g (t/L(z(W)))] with z(W) = 2.5 and K(G) = 0.916 , whereas the surface in the dimer model has a correction to the scaling. The growing (eroding) surfaces have two phases. The models with z > or = 0 show the normal Kardar-Parisi-Zhang scaling behavior. In contrast the models with -1 < or = z < 0 and multiparticle-correlated growth model manifest grooved surface structures with alpha = 1. The growing surfaces of Q -mer models form rather complex facets.
,   A conventional view of the role of sarcomeric thin filaments in cardiac function is that they react with cross-bridges that translate them toward the center of the sarcomere in a reaction triggered by Ca(2+) and powered by ATP. However, thin filaments also engage in a complex network of protein-protein interactions in the Z-disc. Thus, in the modern context, understanding of what thin filaments do in the heart must take into account not only A-band regions that react with cross-bridges, but also I-Z-I regions that rarely, if ever, react with cross-bridges and dwell near and within the Z-disc. To highlight these multiplex functions of the thin filament, I discuss the hypothesis that physical and chemical reactions at the interface of the thin filaments with Z-disc proteins control the docking and activity of kinases and phosphatases that control the levels of phosphorylation of thin filament regulatory proteins. Testing this hypothesis has taken on new significance with the identification of multisite phosphorylation of thin filament proteins as a critical element in the control of cardiac contraction and relaxation reserve and in maladaptive mechanisms in heart failure. Moreover, multiple mutations in Z-disc proteins that link to prevalent cardiomyopathies are likely to alter this remote control of A-band thin filament function.
,   In each of the four title compounds, namely (Z)-5-benzylidene-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one, C10H7NOS2, (I), which crystallizes with Z' = 2 in space group P2(1)/n, (Z)-5-(4-methylbenzylidene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one, C11H9NOS2, (II), (Z)-2-thioxo-5-[4-(trifluoromethyl)benzylidene]thiazolidin-4-one, C11H6F3NOS2, (III), and (Z)-5-(4-methoxybenzylidene)-2-thioxothiazolidin-4-one, C11H9NO2S2, (IV), there is a very wide C-C-C angle (ca 130 degrees ) at the methine C atom linking the two rings. Pairs of N-H...O hydrogen bonds link the two independent molecules in (I) into a cyclic dimeric unit, and these units are further linked into complex sheets by three independent C-H...pi(arene) hydrogen bonds. The molecules of (II) are linked by paired N-H...O hydrogen bonds into centrosymmetric R(2)(2)(8) dimers; the molecules of (III) and (IV) are linked into chains of rings, which are constructed from a combination of N-H...S and C-H...O hydrogen bonds in (III), and from a combination of N-H...O and C-H...S hydrogen bonds in (IV).
,   Clomazone (trade names Cerano and Command) is a popular herbicide used on California rice fields to control aquatic weeds. Its physicochemical characteristics indicate that it will persist primarily in the water column, where microbial degradation may drive its environmental fate. The objectives were to determine microbial degradation rates and compare the metabolic products under aerobic and anaerobic conditions similar to those in California rice fields during the summer. Time-series samples were extracted and analyzed by LC/MS/MS. Metabolic profiling revealed the following clomazone-derived transitions: m/z 240 --> 125 (clomazone), m/z 242 --> 125 (ring-open clomazone), m/z 256 --> 125 (5-hydroxyclomazone), m/z 256 --> 141 (aromatic hydroxyclomazone), m/z 268 --> 125 (unknown metabolite), and m/z 272 --> 141 (4'5-dihydroxyclomazone). Results indicate an anaerobic half-life of 7.9 days, with ring-open clomazone reaching 67.4% of application at 38 days. Aerobically, clomazone degraded more slowly (t(1/2) = 47.3 days), forming mostly soil-bound residues. Thus, under summer conditions, clomazone is likely to dissipate rapidly from fields via anaerobic degradation.
,   A new octadecatrienoic acid (6.9%), found as a component of Chrysanthemum zawadskii Herb. (Asteraceae) seed oil, was shown to be the hitherto unknown cis,cis,cis-octadeca-3,9,12-trienoic acid. The oil also contained 8.6% of crepenynic acid in addition to the other common FA. The structures of the new unusual FA and other FA were confirmed by chromatographic (TLC, GC), spectroscopic (IR, UV, and NMR), and MS methods by using different chemical derivatizations (preparation of methyl ester, pyrrolidide, picolinyl esters, and dimethyloxazoline derivatives).
,   Considering the importance of short oligonucleotide packing in dendriplex-mediated gene delivery, a direct insight into the 14-mer oligonucleotide and dendrimer interactions using fluorescence and FRET techniques is the focus of this study. Fluorometric titrations of various fluorophore-tagged oligonucleotides with the first three PAMAM dendrimer generations showed a decrease in the fluorescence intensity with two break points, namely Z and Z, for each titration. The first break point for each dendrimer was identical to the neutralization point observed by basic biophysical studies for the corresponding dendrimer generations. Additionally, FRET studies on dual tagged oligonucleotide (DFT) molecules revealed a third break point at the charge ratio (Z) where there was the highest fluorescence energy transfer from the donor to the acceptor fluorophores. Altogether, dendriplex formation was considered to take place via three steps with an increase in the dendrimer concentration, where initially there was monomeric complexation at the neutralization point (Z) followed by loosely held molecular aggregation of the dendrimer (Z). In the final step, dendrimer molecular aggregates were held tightly together for the closest possible packing of the oligonucleotide molecules onto their surface. The effective molecular packing is identified by the highest FRET intensity for the dendrimer of generation 2 at a charge ratio of 0.34 (Z±). 
,   The nucleotide sequence of a 700 basepair cDNA obtained from rabbit bladder was determined. It encodes a 123 amino acid protein, which is the smallest member of histone H2A.F/Z subfamily. The known H2A.F/Z variants are highly conserved in their central core regions of about 100 amino acids but more divergent in their N- and C-terminal ends. In addition to the seven amino acid signature sequence previously known for the H2A proteins, all the cloned H2A.F/Z variants contain an identical peptide sequence, L-E-Y-L-T-A-E-V-L-E-L-A-G-N-A. This 15 amino acid motif is proposed here as the signature sequence to identify new members of the H2A.F/Z subfamily.
,   Comparison of the crystal structures of two pentadehydropeptides containing DeltaPhe residues, namely (Z,Z)-N-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)glycyl-alpha,beta-phenylalanylglycyl-alpha,beta-phenylalanylglycine (or Boc(0)-Gly(1)-Delta(Z)Phe(2)-Gly(3)-Delta(Z)Phe(4)-Gly(5)-OH) methanol solvate, C(29)H(33)N(5)O(8) x CH(4)O, (I), and (E,E)-N-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)glycyl-alpha,beta-phenylalanylglycyl-alpha,beta-phenylalanylglycine (or Boc(0)-Gly(1)-Delta(E)Phe(2)-Gly(3)-Delta(E)Phe(4)-Gly(5)-OH), C(29)H(33)N(5)O(8), (II), indicates that the Delta(Z)Phe residue is a more effective inducer of folded structures than the Delta(E)Phe residue. The values of the torsion angles phi and psi show the presence of two type-III' beta-turns at the Delta(Z)Phe residues and one type-II beta-turn at the Delta(E)Phe residue. All amino acids are linked trans to each other in both peptides. Beta-turns present in the peptides are stabilized by intramolecular 4-->1 hydrogen bonds. Molecules in both structures form two-dimensional hydrogen-bond networks parallel to the (100) plane.
,   Biological processes such as transcription may generate domains of supercoiling on a circular DNA. The existence of these domains in Escherichia coli was investigated by the ability of different lengths of (CG) tracts, cloned upstream or downstream from the tetracycline resistance gene (tet) of pBR322, to adopt the Z structure in vivo. Segments as short as 12 base pairs adopt the Z form when cloned upstream from the tet gene (Eco RI site), whereas no Z DNA was detected when this sequence was cloned downstream (Sty I site), even with a 74-base pair (CG) tract that requires less supercoiling than shorter tracts for the B-Z transition. Hence the localized supercoil density in pBR322 can be as high as -0.038 and as low as -0.021 at different loci. These data demonstrate the existence of the Z structure for commonly found natural sequences and support the notion of domains of negative supercoiling in vivo.
,   To determine the effectiveness of the Z-meatoplasty technique for enlargement of the external auditory meatus of children undergoing modified radical mastoidectomy.e series.iatric otolaryngology practice in an academic setting.secutive sample of children (< or =18 years old) who had undergone modified radical mastoidectomy performed by the author from 1995 to 2005.eatoplasty technique used as part of modified radical mastoidectomy.elopment of postoperative stenosis of the external auditory meatus that required additional surgery.otal of 28 children and 29 ears were treated with modified radical mastoidectomy during the study period. The Z-meatoplasty was used in 24 ears, and 3 (12.5%) required revision meatoplasty for meatal stenosis. Twenty-one ears (87.5%) treated with Z-meatoplasty had excellent healing and cosmesis without stenosis, during a mean follow-up period of 40 months. Z-meatoplasty is an effective technique for use during modified radical mastoidectomy to treat children with cholesteatoma.
,   The sequence d(TGCGCG).d(CGCGCA) crystallized in two crystal forms, orthorhombic and hexagonal, in the presence of cobalt hexammine chloride, a known inducer of the left-handed Z-form of DNA. The crystal structures have been solved and refined at 1.71 A resolution in space group P2(1)2(1)2(1) and 2.0 A resolution in space group P6(5). The orthorhombic structure contains one Z-DNA hexamer duplex, while the hexagonal structure contains two hexamer duplexes in the structure. Of the latter, one is situated on a crystallographic sixfold screw axis, leading to disorder. This paper reports the effects of sequence and crystal packing on the structure of Z-type DNA. The structures lend additional support to the authors' earlier conclusion that a stretch of four C.G base pairs is sufficient to nucleate and define the regular model of the left-handed helix based on the structure of d(CGCGCG)2.
,   The incidences of asthma and obesity have been steadily increasing over the past two decades, with several studies showing a relationship between these conditions. We investigated the influence of higher weight for height (WFH) Z-score on wheezing in infants with lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI).reviewed the medical charts of all infants younger than l year of age who were admitted with the first episode of LRTI between 2000 and 2008. Subjects were classified into six groups according to WFH Z-score.ezing was more frequent in infants with higher WFH Z-scores. Especially, wheezing infants aged 3-6 months and 6-9 months had significantly higher WFH Z-scores than had their non-wheezing counterparts (p = 0.05 and p < 0.01 respectively). Multivariate logistic regression showed that age (OR = 0.76, p < 0.001), male gender (OR = 1.61, p = 0.005) and WFH Z-score (OR = 1.12, p = 0.007) were independently associated with wheezing.n this study we could show that a higher WFH Z-score was independently associated with wheezing in infancy. Attainment of appropriate weight for age may reduce the risk of wheezing in infants with respiratory diseases.
,   In muscle cells, a complex network of Z-disc proteins allows proper reception, transduction and transmission of mechanical and biochemical signals. Mutations in genes encoding different Z-disc proteins such as integrin-linked kinase (ILK) and nexilin have recently been shown to cause heart failure by distinct mechanisms such as disturbed mechanosensing, altered mechanotransduction or mechanical Z-disc destabilization. We identified core-binding factor β (CBFβ) as an essential component for maintaining sarcomeric Z-disc and myofilament organization in heart and skeletal muscle. In CBFβ-deficient cardiomyocytes and skeletal-muscle cells, myofilaments are thinned and Z-discs are misaligned, leading to progressive impairment of heart and skeletal-muscle function. Transcription of the gene encoding CBFβ mainly depends on JunB activity. In JunB-morphant zebrafish, which show a heart-failure phenotype similar to that of CBFβ-deficient zebrafish, transcript and protein levels of CBFβ are severely reduced. Accordingly, ectopic expression of CBFβ can reconstitute cardiomyocyte function and rescue heart failure in JunB morphants, demonstrating for the first time an essential role of JunB-CBFβ signaling for maintaining sarcomere architecture and function.
,   Fluorescence fluctuation spectroscopy (FFS) quantifies interactions of fluorescently labeled proteins inside living cells by brightness analysis. Conventional FFS implicitly requires that the sample thickness exceeds the size of the observation volume. This condition is not always fulfilled when measuring cells. Cytoplasmic sections, especially, can be thinner than the axial size of the observation volume. The finite sample thickness introduces a brightness bias which, if not recognized, leads to an erroneous interpretation of the data. To avoid this artifact, we introduce z-scan FFS which consists of a fluorescence intensity z scan through the sample followed by an FFS measurement. To model the experimental z-scan data, a new PSF model had to be introduced. We use the intensity z scan together with the PSF model to determine the geometry of the sample and then extract the brightness from the FFS data. Cells expressing EGFP serve as a model system for testing the experimental approach. We demonstrate that z-scan FFS abolishes the brightness artifact and use the method to determine the oligomerization of cytoplasmic nuclear transport factor 2.
,   The objective of the present study was to review published surveys on allelic frequencies S and Z in European populations to evaluate the validity of the reported data. More than a hundred studies on the topic, published since 1965 until 2000, were retrieved by Medline, Index Medicus and bibliographic references consultation. The criteria for studies selection were: 1) sample size> or =250 individuals; 2) alpha-1-antitrypsin phenotype determination performed by means of crossed antigen-antibody or isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gels; 3) PI type determination performed without any previous screening procedure; 4) S and Z 95% confidence interval (CI) of the reported outcomes with a calculated coefficient of variation <42.3 for S and <95.8 for Z; 5) S and Z 95% CI of the reported outcomes comprised within 95% CI limits of comparative hypothetical surveys designed with the same sample size of the questioned surveys and the highest/lowest frequencies accepted for a specific area, according to the figures of isogen boundary maps. Seventy studies comply with the five established criteria for analysis. According to the data of the selected studies, a geographical distribution on S and Z gene frequencies in Europe is proposed.
,   The pharmacodynamics of (S)-4-[3-[4-[1-(4-methylphenyl)-3-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine-1-yl]propoxy]benzoyl]indole-1-yl] butyric acid hydrochloride (Z-350), which has alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonistic and steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitory effects, were investigated in rats. The disposition of Z-350 was a function of linear kinetics at doses from 1 to 30 mg/kg; the bioavailability was calculated to be 65.2%. The inhibition of 5alpha-reductase was dependent on the concentration of Z-350 in plasma and in the prostate. Analysis of the relationship between the concentration in the prostate and the inhibition seen after a single oral administration showed that the Hill constant was almost 1.0 and EC(50)(n(H)) was 47.4 ng/g of tissue; these parameters did not change after multiple administration. Z-350 inhibited 5alpha-reductase 1 h after oral administration at a dose of 3 mg/kg; maximum inhibition was observed after 2-4 h, and the inhibition (%) was maintained for 24 h after oral administration.
,   A liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry coupled with electrospray ionization (HPLC-ESI-ion trap mass spectrometry) method for simultaneous determination of cetirizine and pseudoephedrine in human plasma is presented. Chromatographic separation was performed on a Hypurity C18 column (Thermo Hypersil-Keystone 2.1 mm x 150 mm, 5 microm, USA), The mobile phase was composed of 65% methanol and 35% water (contained 0.1% formic acid, 10 mM ammonium formate), which was run with a flow-rate of 0.2 ml/min at 40 degrees C. Quantitation was achieved by monitoring the product ions at m/z 166-->m/z 148 (pseudoephedrine), m/z 389.9-->m/z 201.1 (cetirizine), m/z 264-->m/z 246 (tramadol, IS). The calibration curve of pseudoephedrine and cetirizine was established with standard solutions. The limit of detection for pseudoephedrine and cetirizine each was 5 ng/ml. This simplified analytical method is sensitive, specific and accurate enough for simultaneous determination of pseudoephedrine and cetirizine in human plasma and is successfully applied to the pharmacokinetic study of pseudoephedrine and cetirizine.
,   Productions of /s/ and /z/ by ten adult speakers were investigated using the electropalatograph (EPG). The participants, ten speech researchers who spoke English as their first language, recorded productions of /s/ and /z/ in nonsense and real words. The maximum contact frame was used as the point of reference to compare tongue/palate contact for each production. Each speaker had alveolar contact, lateral bracing and most had a midline groove for both /s/ and /z/; however, the array of contacted electrodes was unique for each speaker. The groove widths and lengths ranged from 0-3 electrodes. There was significantly greater alveolar tongue/palate contact for /z/ compared to /s/ in word-initial position, but not in word-final position for the following measures: alveolar palatal contact, medial groove width, medial groove length. However, when measures of total palate contact and centre of gravity were considered, there was a complex interaction between the phonemes /s/ and /z/, coarticulation with the vowel, word position, and word context (real and nonsense words).
,   Negative superhelical coiling of covalently closed DNA plasmids facilitates the formation of left-handed Z-DNA segments. This was demonstrated by binding of antibodies specific for Z-DNA. Plasmid pBR322 and two derivatives from it, pLP32 and pLP014, carrying inserts of alternating CG sequences of 32 bp and 14 bp, respectively, were used. Longer inserts required less negative superhelical density to induce the B-Z transitions. Antibody binding to supercoiled plasmids was also visualized by electron microscopy. Cross-linking of the antibody to the negatively supercoiled plasmid and restriction of the DNA with restriction endonucleases demonstrated that the antibodies combine with the CG insert in pLP32. For pBR322, however, evidence suggests that the antibody combines with a section of DNA containing 14 bases with alternating purine and pyrimidine residues with one residue out of alternation: CACGGGTGCGCATG. These cross-linking studies provide evidence for the binding specificity of the anti-Z-DNA antibodies. On the basis of experimental findings, we have calculated the changes in free energy associated with B-Z transitions in superhelical plasmids.
,   The metabolites of a 750 mg oral dose of Z-47 [3H-1, 2-dihydro-2-(4-methylphenylamino) methyl-1-pyrrolizinone], a new anti-inflammatory and analgesic agent, in rabbit urine were separated and detected with high performance liquid chromatographic method. On basis of the chromatographic behavior of Z-47 metabolites and biotransformation pathways of drugs with partial structure of Z-47, the carboxylic derivative of Z-47 [4-(3H-1, 2-dihydro-1-pyrrolizinone-2-methylamino) benzoic acid] was proposed as a potential metabolite so that the compound was synthesized. The authentic substance was then compared with one of the metabolites by the chromatographic retention time and the ratio of their UV-absorbances at two wavelengths. The enzyme-hydrolyzed product of another metabolite was also analysed. It was consequently confirmed that the carboxylic derivative of Z-47 and its acyl beta-D-glucuronide are major metabolits of Z-47 in rabbits.
,   In an attempt to test the hypothesis that stuttering is the result of discoordination between phonation and articulation, 10 adult stutterers and 10 adult nonstutterers were asked to produce prolonged versions of /z/ and /s/ sounds, as quickly as possible, in response to tone stimuli. It was hypothesized that stutterers would exhibit significantly longer reaction time (RT) for the /z/, a voiced sound, than would a similar group of nonstutterers, whereas the two groups would not differ in RT for the /s/ sound, the unvoiced counterpart of /z/. The results showed that stutterers as a group did not differ from nonstutterers in RT for either the /z/ of the /s/ sound. However, it was found that severe stutterers exhibited significantly longer RTs for the /z/ sound than did mild stutterers. There were no differences between severe and mild stutterers in RT for the /s/ sound.
,   The protective effect of a novel synthetic zinc-carnosine chelate compound, zinc N-(3-aminopropionyl)-L-histidine (Z-103), on the gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was studied in rats. Ischemia and reperfusion injury was produced on the rat stomach by applying a small clamp to the celiac artery for 30 min and by removal of the clamp for 30 min. The decrease in the gastric mucosal blood flow was not influenced by the treatment with Z-103. The increase in total area of the erosions on the stomach after ischemia-reperfusion and the increase in lipid peroxides in the gastric mucosa were significantly inhibited by the oral administration of Z-103. In addition, Z-103 inhibited lipid peroxidation of rat brain homogenate and liver microsome in vitro. These results suggest that the protective effect of Z-103 against the aggravation of gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion may be due to its inhibitory effect on lipid peroxidation.
,   tRNase Z, which exists in almost all cells, is believed to be working primarily for tRNA 3' maturation. In Escherichia coli, however, the tRNase Z gene appears to be dispensable under normal growth conditions, and its physiological role is not clear. Here, to investigate a possibility that E. coli tRNase Z cleaves RNAs other than pre-tRNAs, we tested several unstructured RNAs for cleavage. Surprisingly, all these substrates were cleaved very efficiently at multiple sites by a recombinant E. coli enzyme in vitro. tRNase Zs from Bacillus subtilis and Thermotoga maritima also cleaved various unstructured RNAs. The E. coli and B. subtilis enzymes seem to have a tendency to cleave after cytidine or before uridine, while cleavage by the T. maritima enzyme inevitably occurred after CCA in addition to the other cleavages. Assays to determine optimal conditions indicated that metal ion requirements differ between B. subtilis and T. maritima tRNase Zs. There was no significant difference in the observed rate constant between unstructured RNA and pre-tRNA substrates, while the K(d) value of a tRNase Z/unstructured RNA complex was much higher than that of an enzyme/pre-tRNA complex. Furthermore, eukaryotic tRNase Zs from yeast, pig, and human cleaved unstructured RNA at multiple sites, but an archaeal tRNase Z from Pyrobaculum aerophilum did not.
,   Postburn scar contractures are fairly often seen in many parts of the body, and are still a considerable problem for reconstructive surgeons. Although the mild to moderate contractures can easily be managed by numerous surgical methods, serious contractures usually require more comprehensive surgical solutions including multiple Z plasties and rhomboid flaps, each of which have disadvantages. We used a new method called "double opposing V-Y-Z plasty" in this study. This technique is a combination of V-Y plasty with Z plasty in double opposing fashion, both ensuring primary donor site closure. technique was applied to 21 postburn scar contractures in 14 patients (9 males and 5 females). The localization most often seen was in the hand. mean follow-up time was 7.6 months. All flaps healed uneventfully. An adequate lengthening and functional recovery were achieved in all cases. The donor site scars were acceptable in all cases. None of the patients developed contracture recurrence in our series.ble opposing V-Y-Z plasty, as a good alternative to multiple Z plasties and multiple rhomboid flaps, is a very useful technique to insure more lengthening and to prevent recurrence in the treatment of serious postburn scar contractures.
,   The molecular species of phospholipids (PLs) and glycolipids (GLs) were simultaneously characterized in the pulp and almond of the avocado fruit (Persea americana Mill) of four varieties by means of high performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionisation ion-trap tandem mass spectrometry. In the pulp, the predominant species of monoglycosyldiglycerides (MGD) were m/z 796.6 (oleic/linolenic and linoleic/linoleic acids) and m/z 800.4 (stearic/linoleic and oleic/oleic acids). One of the main diglycosyldiglycerides (DGD) both in the pulp and almond was m/z 958.5 (oleic/linolenic); however, the pulp was also rich of m/z 962.4 (oleic/oleic), whereas in the almond, m/z 934.5 (palmitic/linoleic and palmitoleic/oleic) and m/z 960.5 (oleic/linoleic and stearic/linolenic) were more abundant. In the almond, the main PL classes (phosphatidic acid (PA), phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylinositol (PI)) contained always palmitic/linoleic acids. Alpha-linolenic acid was contained as MGD (linolenic/linolenic) and DGD (linolenic/linolenic), more present in the pulp than in the almond. The major molecular species of glycocerebrosides (GCer) in the pulp and almond carried hydroxy-palmitic acid (C(16h:0))/4,8-sphyngadienine (d(18:2)).
,   Extensive physiological evaluation of lung function were conducted in two groups of asymptomatic individuals with deficiencies of alpha1-antitrypsin: seven subjects with phenotype Pi SZ and six subjects with phenotype Pi Z. Four symptomatic individuals of Pi Z type were also investigated. The asymptomatic individuals of both SZ and Z phenotypes revealed reduction of elastic recoil, hypoventilation and hypoperfusion of the lung bases with increased closing and nitogen wash-out volumes. No signs of bronchial obstruction were observed. The asymptomatic Pi SZ subjects revealed as many signs of subclinical disease as did the asymptomatic Pi Z subjects. These data suggest that Pi SZ subjects are at increased risk of emphysema similar to Pi Z subjects.
,   We examined whether bovine serum amine oxidase (BSAO) was able to oxidize lysyl peptides. Seven synthetic peptides, Z-Lys-Leu-OMe, Z-His-Lys-Leu-OMe, Z-Val-Leu-Gly-Lys-Leu-OMe, Ala-Ala-Lys, Ala-Lys-Ala, Phe-Lys, and Gly-Lys were incubated with BSAO at 37 degrees C for 4 days, and the extent of oxidation (H2O2 formation) was assayed by o-dianisidine method. The amino acid sequence of lysyl peptides affected the oxidation rate by BSAO. The rate of oxidation of Z-Lys-Leu-OMe was about fifty fold higher than that of Z-His-Lys-Leu-OMe. Z-Lys-Leu-OMe, the lysyl peptide most reactive with BSAO was analyzed by the 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrochloride method, amino acid analysis, and the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid method. The production of aldehyde, a decrease in the lysine/leucine ratio, and a decrease in epsilon-amino group were confirmed. These results show that bovine serum amine oxidase is able to oxidize the epsilon-amino group of lysyl peptides.
,   The gas-phase ion-molecule reactions of 1,1,3,3-tetrafluorodimethyl ether and water have been examined using Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry, infrared multiphoton dissociation (IRMPD) spectroscopy, and ab initio molecular orbital calculations. This reaction sequence leads to the efficient bimolecular production of the proton-bound dimer of water (H5O2+). Evidence for the dominant mechanistic pathway involving the reaction of CF2H-O=CHF+, an ion of m/z 99, with water is presented. The primary channel occurs via nucleophilic attack of water on the ion of m/z 99 (CF2H-O=CHF+), to lose formyl fluoride and yield-protonated difluoromethanol (m/z 69). Association of a second water molecule with protonated difluoromethanol generates a reactive intermediate that decomposes via a 1,4-elimination to release hydrogen fluoride and yield the proton-bound dimer of water and formyl fluoride (m/z 67). Last, the elimination of formyl fluoride occurs by the association of a third water molecule to produce H5O2+ (m/z 37). The most probable isomeric forms of the ions with m/z 99 and 69 were found using IRMPD spectroscopy and electronic structure theory calculations. Thermochemical information for reactant, transition state, and product species was obtained using MP2(full)/6-311+G**//6-31G* level of theory.
,   An ab initio study of the addition of successive water molecules to the amino acid l-alanine in both the nonionized (N) and zwitterionic (Z) forms are presented. The main focus is the number of waters needed to stabilize the Z form and how the solvent affects conformational preference. The solvent is modeled by ab initio electronic structure theory, the EFP (effective fragment potential) model, and the isotropic dielectric PCM (polarizable continuum method) bulk solvation techniques. The EFP discrete solvation model is used with a Monte Carlo algorithm to sample the configuration space to find the global minimum. Bridging structures are predicted to be the lowest energy Z minima after 3-5 discrete waters are included in the calculations, depending on the level of theory. Second-order perturbation theory and PCM stabilize the Z structures by approximately 3-6 and 7 kcal/mol, respectively, relative to the N global minimum through the addition of up to 8 waters. Subsequently, the contributions of each are approximately 1 kcal/mol relative to the N global minimum. The presence of 32 waters appears to be close to converging the N-Z enthalpy difference, DeltaH(N-Z).
,   A recombinant plasmid was constructed by ligating EcoRI digests of the plasmid cloning vector pBR325 and pZMO2, one of the natural plasmids of Zymomonas mobilis ATCC 10988. This vector, named pDS212 (total size 7.9 kb), which was able to transform Escherichia coli efficiently, was also transferred to Z. mobilis hosts by mobilization during conjugation using the helper plasmid pRK2013. pDS212 was inherited stably in both E. coli and Z. mobilis hosts and could be recovered intact from them. Markers of pBR325 and pRK2013 were also transferred in Z. mobilis but at very low frequencies. Neither pBR325 nor pRK2013 could be recovered intact from the Z. mobilis hosts. It is proposed that expression and stability of pDS212 in Z. mobilis is due to the origin of replication of pZMO2 that it carries, and that it may be used for developing a gene transfer system in Z. mobilis.
,   Some cyclic chalcone analogues [E-2-(X-benzylidene)-1-indanones, -tetralones, and -benzosuberones], on-plate UV light-catalyzed formation of new chromatographic spots, can be observed during thin-layer chromatography (TLC). Gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of selected derivatives indicates the formation of one new substance in each case. GC coupled with mass spectrometry and 1H NMR analysis of the samples reveals that the compounds formed are the respective Z-2-(X-benzylidene)-1-indanones, -tetralones, and -benzosuberones. Two-dimensional TLC shows that the E/Z isomerization is a reversible process. By means of the RP-TLC, the logarithm of n-octanol-water partition coefficient (log P) values of E- and Z-isomeric pairs of selected 2-(X-benzylidene)-1-benzosuberones is determined. The Z-isomers are less lipophilic than the E-isomers.
,   To identify significant predictors for adverse neonatal outcome in severe by compromised fetuses.secutive premature fetuses at between 25 and 32 weeks' with severe placental insufficiency were examined prospectively. Inclusion criteria were: singletons; normal anatomy; abnormal umbilical artery Doppler pulsatility index; abnormal cerebroplacental ratio; middle cerebral artery pulsatility index (PI) <or=2 standard deviations. We considered as independent potential predicting variables: absent or reversed end diastolic flow in umbilical artery, abnormal ductus venosus S/A ratio, absent or reversed flow during atrial contraction in the ductus venosus, and estimated fetal weight (EFW) Z score. Outcome parameters were: neonatal mortality and severe neonatal morbidity (Periventricular-Intraventricular Hemorrhage grade 03 or 04, Retinopathy of Prematurity stage 3 or 4, Periventricular Leukomalacia or Broncopulmonary Dysplasia).variate analysis for all potential predicting variables was performed. EFW Z score index showed the strongest association with mortality and there was no fetal death or Retinopathy of Prematurity in the group with EFW Z-score index below lower limit. There was no case of Cystic Periventricular Leukomalatia in these analyses. The area under receiver-operator characteristic curve was significant for EFW Z-score index. study suggests that EFW Z score is the strongest predictor of adverse neonatal outcome in severely compromised fetuses.
,   We investigate the domain structure of the pair contact process with diffusion (PCPD). PCPD is a stochastic reaction-diffusion model which evolves by the competition of two binary reactions, 2A-->3A and 2A-->0 . In addition, each particle diffuses isotropically, which leads to the bidirectional coupling between solitary particles and pairs. The spreading domain formed from localized activities in vacuum consists of two regions: The coupled region of size R{p} where pairs and solitary particles coexist and the uncoupled region of size R{U} where only solitary particles exist, respectively. The size of the whole domain R is given as R=R{p}+R{U} . At criticality, R{p} and R{U} scale as R{p} approximately t(1/Z{p}) and R{U} approximately t(1/Z{U}) with Z{U}>Z{p}. We estimate Z{p}=1.61(1) and Z{U}=1.768(8) . Hence the correction to the scaling of R,Q=R{U}/R{p} slowly decays extremely, which makes it practically impossible to identify the asymptotic scaling behavior of R. The double domain structure is another reason for the extremely slow approach to the asymptotic scaling regime of PCPD.
,   We describe the selection of a group of plasmids with potential to form Z-DNA, from libraries of Drosophila hydei nuclear DNA using anti Z-DNA monoclonal (22) or polyclonal (10c) antibodies. The supercoiled closed circular forms of most of the selected recombinant plasmids from the 10c Z-DNA library show affinity to the polyclonal 10c antibody as indicated by DNA binding assays. One of these plasmids, pF17, was selected for further study. The insert in this plasmid adopts the Z conformation at bacterial supercoiled density. Analysis of deletion plasmids indicates that a Z-epitope is located within a short fragment of the insert in which 3 GC repetitions are found. The Drosophila DNA insert in pF17 hybridizes in situ with locus 4-75C1-2 of the polytene chromosomes, a locus whose transcriptional activity is developmentally regulated during the third instar.
,   The regiospecificity for the gene product of fad2,(1) the microsomal oleoyl-PC desaturase from higher plants, differs from some previous suggestions. Rather than only referencing the carboxyl group (a Delta(12) desaturase) or the methyl terminus (an omega-6 desaturase), this desaturase locates the second double bond in its substrates by first referencing the existing double bond. This specificity was demonstrated for the oleoyl-PC desaturase cDNA from the developing seeds of peanut (Arachis hypogaea L) expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae). The expressed enzyme was capable of desaturating monounsaturated fatty acyl groups in membrane lipids. Endogenous palmitoleate was desaturated to cis, cis 9,12 hexadecadienoate (9(Z)12(Z)C16:2), endogenous oleate to linoleate (9(Z)12(Z) octadecadienoate), and cis 10-nonadecenoate (provided as a supplement in the growth medium) to 10(Z)13(Z)C19:2. The rule, Delta(x+3) where x=9 is the double bond location in the substrate, best describes the consistent placement of the second double bond in the above monounsaturated substrates for the oleoyl-PC desaturase of higher plants.
,   The Zα domain of human ADAR1 (Zα(ADAR1)) preferentially binds Z-DNA rather than B-DNA with high binding affinity. Zα(ADAR1) binds to the Z-conformation of both non-CG-repeat DNA duplexes and a d(CGCGCG)(2) duplex similarly. We performed NMR experiments on complexes between the Zα(ADAR1) and non-CG-repeat DNA duplexes, d(CACGTG)(2) or d(CGTACG)(2), with a variety of protein-DNA molar ratios. Comparison of these results with those from the analysis of d(CGCGCG)(2) in the previous study suggests that Zα(ADAR1) exhibits the sequence preference of d(CGCGCG)(2)≫d(CACGTG)(2)>d(CGTACG)(2) through multiple sequence discrimination steps during the B-Z transition.
,   For the first time, a geometry has been developed to allow for an axial imaging system for wire-array Z-pinch experiments that produce high-resolution x-ray images. The new geometry required a significant redesign of the electrode hardware. Calibrated areal density measurements of the Z-pinch plasma including wire cores, coronal plasma, streaming plasma, and the precursor were obtained. The system used eight-wire molybdenum (Mo) X pinches in series with and directly below the Z-pinch axis to provide micron-scale x-rays sources for point-projection radiography. The images formed on the x-ray sensitive film had a 15 mm diameter field of view at the center height of the array and a magnification of about 7.5:1. Titanium (Ti) filters in front of the film transmitted radiation in the spectral range of 3-5 keV. For calibration, a separate film with the same thickness Ti filter was placed the same distance from the X pinch. This film had an unobstructed path that bypasses the Z-pinch but included step wedges for calibration of the Z-pinch plasma. The step wedges had thicknesses of tungsten (W) ranging from 0.015 to 1.1 microm to obtain areal density measurements of the W plasma from the wire-array. Images had subnanosecond temporal resolution and about 10 microm spatial resolution.
,   Alpha-1 antitrypsin (alpha1-AT) is a secretory glycoprotein produced mainly in the liver and monocytes. It is the most abundant serine protease inhibitor in human plasma. It predominantly inhibits neutrophil elastase thus, it prevents the breakdown of lung tissue. The deficiency of alpha1-AT is an inherited disorder characterized by reduced serum level of alpha1-AT. Protease inhibitors Z (PiZ) and protease inhibitors S (PiS) are the most common deficient genotypes of alpha1-AT. The aim of this study is to test the relationship between alpha1-AT deficient genotypes S and Z and lung cancer in Jordanian lung cancer patients.obtained the samples used in this study from 100 paraffin embedded tissue blocks of the lung cancer patients from Prince Iman Research Center and Laboratory Sciences at King Hussein Medical Center, Amman, Jordan. Analyses of the Z and S genotypes of alpha1-AT were performed by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism techniques at Jordan University of Science and Technology during 2003 and 2004.demonstrated that all lung cancer patients were of M genotype, and no Z or S genotypes were detected.re is no relationship between alpha1-AT deficient genotypes S and Z and lung cancer in patients involved in this study.
,   Arenaviridae comprises 23 recognized virus species with a bipartite ssRNA genome and an ambisense coding strategy. The virions are enveloped and include nonequimolar amounts of each genomic RNA species, designated L and S, coding for four ORFs (N, GPC, L, and Z). The arenavirus Junín (JUNV) is the etiological agent of Argentine Hemorrhagic Fever, an acute disease with high mortality rate. It has been proposed that Z is the functional counterpart of the matrix proteins found in other negative-stranded enveloped RNA viruses. Here we report the optimized expression of a synthetic gene of Z protein, using three expression systems (two bacterial and a baculoviral one). One of these recombinant proteins was used to generate antibodies. A bioinformatic analysis was made where Z was subdivided into three domains. The data presented contributes methodologies for Z recombinant production and provides the basis for the development of new experiments to test its function.
,   The Yaba-like disease viruses (YLDV) are members of the Yatapoxvirus family and have double-stranded DNA genomes. The E3L protein, which is essential for pathogenesis in the vaccinia virus, consists of two domains: an N-terminal Z-DNA binding domain and a C-terminal RNA binding domain. The crystal structure of the E3L orthologue of YLDV (yabZα(E3L)) bound to Z-DNA revealed that the overall structure of yabZα(E3L) and its interaction with Z-DNA are very similar to those of hZα(ADAR1). Here we have performed NMR hydrogen exchange experiments on the complexes between yabZα(E3L) and d(CGCGCG)(2) with a variety of protein-to-DNA molar ratios. This study revealed that yabZα(E3L) could efficiently change the B-form helix of the d(CGCGCG)(2) to left-handed Z-DNA via the active-mono B-Z transition pathway like hZα(ADAR1).
,   It has been shown that duplicate genes on the X chromosome evolve much faster than duplicate genes on autosomes in Drosophila melanogaster. However, whether this phenomenon is general and can be applied to other species is not known. Here we examined this issue in chicken that have heterogametic females (females have ZW sex chromosome). We compared sequence divergence of duplicate genes on the Z chromosome with those on autosomes. We found that duplications on the Z chromosome indeed evolved faster than those on autosomes and show distinct patterns of molecular evolution from autosomal duplications. Examination of the expression of duplicate genes revealed an enrichment of duplications on the Z chromosome having male-biased expression and an enrichment of duplications on the autosomes having female-biased expression. These results suggest an evolutionary trend of the recruitment of duplicate genes towards reproduction-specific function. The faster evolution of duplications on Z than on the autosomes is most likely contributed by the selective forces driving the fixation of adaptive mutations on Z. Therefore, the common phenomena observed in both flies and chicken suggest that duplicate genes on sex chromosomes have distinct dynamics and are more influenced by natural selection than autosomal duplications, regardless of the kind of sex determination systems.
,   Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) is one of the most popular classification algorithms for brain-computer interfaces (BCI). LDA assumes Gaussian distribution of the data, with equal covariance matrices for the concerned classes, however, the assumption is not usually held in actual BCI applications, where the heteroscedastic class distributions are usually observed. This paper proposes an enhanced version of LDA, namely z-score linear discriminant analysis (Z-LDA), which introduces a new decision boundary definition strategy to handle with the heteroscedastic class distributions. Z-LDA defines decision boundary through z-score utilizing both mean and standard deviation information of the projected data, which can adaptively adjust the decision boundary to fit for heteroscedastic distribution situation. Results derived from both simulation dataset and two actual BCI datasets consistently show that Z-LDA achieves significantly higher average classification accuracies than conventional LDA, indicating the superiority of the new proposed decision boundary definition strategy. 
,   Spontaneous zygogenesis (or Z-mating) in Escherichia coli, unlike F-mediated conjugation, promotes formation of complete zygotes. Most Z-mating products have proven to be phenotypically unstable, losing part of the phenotype for which they were selected. Persistent Z-mating products appear as stable genetic recombinants or yield subclones of two types: either both parental types or one of them plus a recombinant type, and the ability to promote spontaneous zygogenesis can appear in all emerging types. Here it is shown that spontaneous zygogenesis-promoting E. coli strains can Z-mate with strains of Shigella flexneri, Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium and Serratia marcescens, giving rise to products that behave like those of homospecific Z-matings. When genetic recombination was prevented in products of Z-mating between E. coli and S. enterica or S. marcescens, phenotype switching was observed in purified isolates exhibiting a single phenotype, thus providing further evidence of interspecies genotypic mixing. The presence of two distinct replicons within a cell introduces a new situation that contrasts with classical conjugation between heterologous strains, where the partially transferred chromosomal segment is subject to restriction, is unable to replicate and is limited in genetic recombination.
,   The chemical compositions of the essential oils obtained from leaves and flowers of Helichrysum pallasii were analyzed by gas chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Among the 102 identified constituents, hexadecanoic acid (16.2%), (Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid (6.8%), tetradecanoic acid (2.6%), and (Z)-caryophyllene (4.2%) were the main constituent of the oil from leaves, while in the oil from flowers hexadecanoic acid (14.7%), (Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid (14.2%), (Z)-caryophyllene (3.6%), and delta-cadinene (3.1%) predominated. The oils were both characterized by sesquiterpenes (33.4% for leaves and 33.7% for flowers, respectively) and fatty acids and esters (30.3% in leaves and 35% in flowers, respectively). The in vitro activity of the essential oils of the plant against some microorganisms in comparison with chloramphenicol by the broth dilution method was determined. The oils exhibited a weak activity as inhibitors of growth of Staphylococcus epidermidis in vitro (minimum inhibitory concentration = 100 microg/mL).
,   To establish a method for the simultaneous qualitative analysis of four indandione rodenticides by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with ion trap mass spectrometry (LC-IT/MS).er the indandione rodenticides in bait were extracted by acetone, and cleaned by solid-phase extraction (SPE), the liquid chromatographic separation and the MS/MS cracking were performed in the optimal instrument conditions by LC-IT/MS. Qualitative detection were carried out by the principle of mass spectrometry analysis of three qualitative ions. MS/MS fragment ions had good characteristics and stability, the cracking ways to the parent ions and fragment ions were clear. Qualitative ion pairs were m/z 339-->167 and m/z 339-->145 for diphacine, m/z 373-->201 and m/z 373-->145 for chlorophacinone, m/z 229-->145 and m/z229-->187 for valone, and m/z 229-->172 and m/z229-->145 for pindone.s established method is simple, accurate and reliable for the qualitative analysis of indandione rodenticides.
,   SU5416 (Z-isomer), the first in its class of angiogenesis inhibitors, in solution converts to the E-isomer following light exposure and reverts to the Z-isomer in the dark. Kinetics of this Z-E isomerism in pharmaceutical media is reported. Analytical solutions need light protection at 5 degrees C to maintain integrity. While E-isomer in light-exposed product increased to 0.9% in 24 hours, light-protected product showed no change (25 degrees C, 18 months). Infusate studies indicated that < 1.9% E-isomer will be dosed to patients and would likely convert to the Z-isomer, following administration. This report implies Z-E isomerism in SU5416 is controllable with no limitations towards ensuring pharmaceutical product quality.
,   An ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS) method was developed for the detection and structural analysis of ginsenosides in white ginseng and related processed products (red ginseng). Original neutral, malonyl, and chemically transformed ginsenosides were identified in white and red ginseng samples. The aglycone types of ginsenosides were determined by MS/MS as PPD (m/z 459), PPT (m/z 475), C-24, -25 hydrated-PPD or PPT (m/z 477 or m/z 493), and Δ20(21)-or Δ20(22)-dehydrated-PPD or PPT (m/z 441 or m/z 457). Following the structural determination, the UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS-based chemical profiling coupled with multivariate statistical analysis method was applied for global analysis of white and processed ginseng samples. The chemical markers present between the processed products red ginseng and white ginseng could be assigned. Process-mediated chemical changes were recognized as the hydrolysis of ginsenosides with large molecular weight, chemical transformations of ginsenosides, changes in malonyl-ginsenosides, and generation of 20-(R)-ginsenoside enantiomers. The relative contents of compounds classified as PPD, PPT, malonyl, and transformed ginsenosides were calculated based on peak areas in ginseng before and after processing. This study provides possibility to monitor multiple components for the quality control and global evaluation of ginseng products during processing. 
,   A simple, fast and sensitive quantification method for the drug metformin in dog serum was developed using flow injection analysis (FIA)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The method was fully validated according to industry standards. It is the first time that FIA-MS/MS for metformin was developed surpassing all existing methods in terms of time of analysis. The quantification method was dependent on the formation of [M+H](+) using electrospray ionization (ESI) and employing multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) using quadrupole-linear ion trap (4000 QTRAP(®)) instrument. A deuterated internal standard (IS) of metformin bearing six deuterium atoms was used to compensate for matrix effects and for variation in ion current within the ESI source. The ion transitions that were monitored were m/z 130.1→m/z 71.0 and m/z 130.1→m/z 60.1 for metformin and m/z 136.0→m/z 77.0 for the internal standard. A linear response (r=0.9966) was established for a range of concentrations of 5-2340 ng/mL. The inter- and intra-day variations were within the acceptable criteria for all quality control samples. The method was successfully applied for measurement of serum metformin concentration in dogs after intravenous injection.
,   A series of c- and z*-type product ions formed via gas-phase electron-transfer ion/ion reactions between protonated polypeptides with azobenzene radical anions are subjected to ion trap collision activation in a linear ion trap. Fragment ions including a-, b-, y-type and ammonia-loss ions are typically observed in collision induced dissociation (CID) of c ions, showing almost identical CID patterns as those of the C-terminal amidated peptides consisting of the same sequences. Collisional activation of z* species mainly gives rise to side-chain losses and peptide backbone cleavages resulting in a-, b-, c-, x-, y-, and z-type ions. Most of the fragmentation pathways of z* species upon ion trap CID can be accounted for by radical driven processes. The side-chain losses from z* species are different from the small losses observed from the charge-reduced peptide molecular species in electron-transfer dissociation (ETD), which indicates rearrangement of the radical species. Characteristic side-chain losses are observed for several amino acid residues, which are useful to predict their presence in peptide/protein ions. Furthermore, the unique side-chain losses from leucine and isoleucine residues allow facile distinction of these two isomeric residues.
,   Using fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH) of zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones, we determined the chromosomal localizations of 14 zebra finch genes that are Z-linked in chickens: ATP5A1, CHD1, NR2F1, DMRT1, PAM, GHR, HSD17B4, NIPBL, ACO1, HINT1, SMAD2, SPIN, NTRK2 and UBE2R2. All 14 genes also map to the zebra finch Z chromosome, indicating substantial conservation of gene content on the Z chromosome in the two avian lineages. However, the physical order of these genes on the zebra finch Z chromosome differed from that of the chicken, in a pattern that would have required several inversions since the two lineages diverged. Eight of 14 zebra finch BAC DNA showed cross-hybridization to the W chromosome, usually to the entire W chromosome, suggesting that repetitive sequences are shared by the W and Z chromosomes. These repetitive sequences likely evolved in the finch lineage after it diverged from the Galliform lineage.
,   The influence of an induced axial magnetic field on plasma dynamics and radiative characteristics of Z pinches is investigated. An axial magnetic field was induced in a novel Z-pinch load: a double planar wire array with skewed wires (DPWAsk), which represents a planar wire array in an open magnetic configuration. The induced axial magnetic field suppressed magneto-Rayleigh-Taylor (MRT) instabilities (with m = 0 and m = 1 instability modes) in the Z-pinch plasma. The influence of the initial axial magnetic field on the structure of the plasma column at stagnation was manifested through the formation of a more uniform plasma column compared to a standard double planar wire array (DPWA) load [V. L. Kantsyrev et al., Phys. Plasmas 15, 030704 (2008)]. The DPWAsk load is characterized by suppression of MRT instabilities and by the formation of the sub-keV radiation pulse that occurs before the main x-ray peak. Gradients in plasma parameters along the cathode-anode gap were observed and analyzed for DPWAsk loads made from low atomic number Z (Al) and mid-Z (brass) wires.
,   The effects of doping amine to ZSM-5 on its catalytic activity for hydrolysis of dimethyl ether (DME) have been studied theoretically using Density Functional Theory with the embedded cluster ONIOM(M06/6-31G(d,p):UFF) model. Doping by amine to ZSM-5 yields two new active centers, namely the protonated Z[NH2] and non-protonated Z[NH] amine sites in addition to the normal Brønsted acid Z[OH] site. The reaction has two possible stepwise and concerted channels. The stepwise channel consists of two elementary steps; (i) the demethylation followed by (ii) the hydrolysis while the concerted channel involves in the demethylation and hydrolysis in a single step. We found that the reaction favors to proceed via the concerted channel at all three active centers. The results predict that the Z[OH] shows the best catalytic performance for the studied reaction. The Z[NH2] is not catalytically active due to the activation barriers are extremely high for both stepwise and concerted pathways. The demethylation step is energetically favorable over the Z[NH] site, however, the product methylamonium surface intermediate is too stable to be further converted to methanol.
,   Carriers of Z-gene alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency (A-1-ATD) have characteristic periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive diastase resistant globules in hepatocytes. In order to determine a possible relationship between Z-gene A-1-ATD and small cell carcinoma of the lung (SCCL), we examined liver blocks from 88 consecutive autopsies performed on patients with SCCL and from a control group of 88 patients with carcinoma not primarily located in the lung or the liver. Histological evidence of Z-gene-A-1-ATD was 4.5% in both groups, corresponding to the expected frequency of Z-gene carriers in a Scandinavian population. It is therefore unlikely that Z-gene A-1-ATD has a role in the development of SCCL.
,   Z-DNA is a high energy conformer of B-DNA that forms in vivo during transcription as a result of torsional strain generated by a moving polymerase. An understanding of the biological role of Z-DNA has advanced with the discovery that the RNA editing enzyme double-stranded RNA adenosine deaminase type I (ADAR1) has motifs specific for the Z-DNA conformation. Editing by ADAR1 requires a double-stranded RNA substrate. In the cases known, the substrate is formed by folding an intron back onto the exon that is targeted for modification. The use of introns to direct processing of exons requires that editing occurs before splicing. Recognition of Z-DNA by ADAR1 may allow editing of nascent transcripts to be initiated immediately after transcription, ensuring that editing and splicing are performed in the correct sequence. Structural characterization of the Z-DNA binding domain indicates that it belongs to the winged helix-turn-helix class of proteins and is similar to the globular domain of histone-H5.
,   Nepetalactones, the major chemical components of catnip (Nepeta cataria L.), were analysed by reversed-phase HPLC coupled with UV and MS detection. Two major nepetalactones, Z,E-nepetalactone and E,Z-nepetalactone, were successfully identified and quantified. The linearity range for Z,E-nepetalactone was determined as 0.00655-0.655 mg/mL with a correlation coefficient of 0.9999, and the linearity range of E,Z-nepetalactone was found to be 0.00228-0.456 mg/mL with a correlation coefficient of 0.9999, under UV detection at 228 nm. The linearity ranges were from 0.00164 to 0.0328 mg/mL, with a correlation coefficient of 0.9999, for ZE-nepetalactone and 0.00114-0.0228 mg/mL, with a correlation coefficient of 0.9999, for E,Z-nepetalactone by MS detection with selected ion monitoring of ion peak m/z 167. The MS detection was found to be more sensitive than UV detection and this method was validated as simple, reliable and sensitive for catnip nepetalactone analysis. This method can be used for identification and fingerprinting of catnip products.
,   We tested the hypothesis that among 3- to 5-year-old children attending Head Start, body mass index z score will decline during the academic year and increase during the summer.used retrospective longitudinal growth data collected over 5 academic years from 1914 children (51% boys, 62% white) enrolled in a Michigan Head Start program. Changes in body mass index (BMI) z score, calculated as annual rate of change, during 2 academic years and the intervening summer were assessed by piecewise linear regression analysis. Potential covariates were gender, single-parent status, program year, race/ethnicity, age at initial enrollment, and family income (divided by household size).n BMI z score at the start of Head Start enrollment was 0.52 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 0.39 to 0.65). Mean annual rates of BMI z score change were: -0.07 (95% CI -0.28 to 0.14) during the first year of enrollment, 0.62 (95% CI -0.0005 to 1.23) over the summer, and -0.82 (95% CI -1.50 to -0.13) during the second year of enrollment. The effect was most robust among girls of minority race/ethnicity.d Start is associated with a shifting of BMI z scores toward the norm among low-income preschool-aged children, particularly among girls of minority race/ethnicity.
,   Layer-by-layer technique is used to adsorb a uniform ultrathin layer of fluorescently labelled polyelectrolytes on a glass cover slip. Due to their thickness, uniformity and fluorescence properties, these ultrathin layers may serve as a simple and applicable standard to directly measure the z-response of different scanning optical microscopes. In this work we use ultrathin layers to measure the z-response of confocal, two-photon excitation and 4Pi laser scanning microscopes. Moreover, due to their uniformity over a wide region, i.e. cover slip surface, it is possible to quantify the z-response of the system over a full field of view area. This property, coupled with a bright fluorescence signal, enables the use of polyelectrolyte layers for representation on sectioned imaging property charts: a very powerful method to characterize image formation properties and capabilities (z-response, off-axis aberration, spherical aberration, etc.) of a three-dimensional scanning system. The sectioned imaging property charts method needs a through-focus dataset taken from such ultrathin layers. Using a comparatively low illumination no significant bleaching occurs during the excitation process, so it is possible to achieve long-term monitoring of the z-response of the system. All the above mentioned properties make such ultrathin layers a suitable candidate for calibration and a powerful tool for real-time evaluation of the optical sectioning capabilities of different three-dimensional scanning systems especially when coupled to sectioned imaging property charts.
,   The ability of ASTA Z 7557 to inhibit colony formation in vitro by 6 human tumor cell lines and 3 methyl-cholanthrene-induced murine fibrosarcomas was compared to that of cyclophosphamide, 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide, BCNU, cisplatin, mitomycin C, doxorubicin, and 5-fluorouracil, as a function of dose, and duration of exposure. All drugs except cyclophosphamide were active in a dose and time dependent manner against all cell lines. ASTA Z 7557 and 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide at equimolar concentrations had similar antiproliferative activities. The stabilities of ASTA Z 7557 and 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide as measured by cytotoxic activity remaining after incubation at various times at 37 degrees in complete tissue culture medium containing 10% fetal calf serum were identical. At initial concentrations of 20 microM, cytotoxic activity of both compounds began to decline after two hours of incubation and all activity was lost after 24 hours of incubation. In vitro, ASTA Z 7557 produced, at least, additive cytotoxic activity with cisplatin, the combination of cisplatin plus doxorubicin, and human lymphoblastoid interferon.
,   The precursor ASTA Z 7557 of the in vivo active metabolite 4-hydroxy-cyclophosphamide (4OH-Cy) of cyclophosphamide (Cy) was tested for selective effects on human T-lymphocytes' Fc gamma-receptor expression and certain immunoregulatory functions. It has been found that ASTA Z 7557 does not alter the expression of Fc gamma-F- or Fc gamma-I-receptors on the T-cell membrane nor does it exhibit differential toxicity for either T-cell subpopulation. PWM-induced B-cell proliferation is inhibited by ASTA Z 7557, whereas B-cells' Ig-synthesis as well as ConA-driven T-cell proliferation is only blocked with higher doses of the reagent. Final concentrations above 1 microgram/ml may therefore abrogate ConA-induction of suppressor T-lymphocytes. Already ConA-activated suppressor cells of PWM-driven B-cell cultures, however, are not inhibited even with high doses of ASTA Z 7557.
,   The sponge Plakortis lita from Papua New Guinea is a source of three cyclic peroxides-ethyl plakortide Z (3), ethyl didehydroplakortide Z (4), and methyl didehydroplakortide Z (5)-and three acyclic diol analogues-ethyl seco-plakortide Z (6), epi-ethyl seco-plakortide Z (7), and ethyl didehydro-seco-plakortide Z (8). The absolute stereochemistry at the three chiral sites of 3 was assigned by preparing 6, which was investigated using the refined Mosher's method. Compounds 4, 5, and 6 were also concluded to have the same absolute stereochemistry as 3. The cyclic peroxides were generally cytotoxic, while the acyclic analogues were devoid of activity. Compound 3 was equally active in vitro against solid tumor and L-1210 leukemia cell lines. Alternatively, 4 was observed in vitro to be moderately solid-tumor selective but did not exhibit in vivo activity against solid tumors in mice.
,   A sensitive and fast high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-MS/MS method for the simultaneous quantitation of levodopa and carbidopa in human plasma was developed and validated. A simple protein precipitation step with perchloric acid was used for the cleanup of plasma, and methyldopa was added as an internal standard. The analyses were carried out using an ACE C(18) column (50 × 4.6 mm i.d.; 5 µm particle size) and a mobile phase consisting of 0.2% formic acid and acetonitrile (90:10). The triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray source in positive mode was set up in the selective reaction monitoring mode to detect the ion transitions m/z 198.1 → m/z 107.0, m/z 227.2 → m/z 181.0, and m/z 212.1 → m/z 139.2 for levodopa, carbidopa, and methyldopa, respectively. The method was validated and proved to be linear, accurate, and precise over the range 50-5000 ng/mL for levodopa and 3-600 ng/mL for carbidopa. The proposed method was successfully applied in a pharmacokinetic study with a levodopa/carbidopa tablet formulation in healthy volunteers.
,   To investigate the protective effects of the natural medicinal monomer ecdysterone (ECR) with estrogenic activity against oxidative damage in human lens epithelial cells B3 (HLE-B3) caused by hydrogen peroxide 21(H2O2) and to pursue the possible mitochondrial proteomic regularity of the protective effects.-B3 cells were treated with H2O2 (300µmol/L), β-estuarial (E2; 10(-8)mol/L) and H2O2, ECR (10(-6)mol/L) and H2O2, or left untreated. Altered expression of all mitochondrial proteins was analyzed by protein array and surface-enhanced laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS). The mass/charge (M/Z) ratios of each peak were tested by the Kruskal-Wallis rank sum test, and the protein peak value of the M/Z ratio for each treatment by pair comparison was analyzed with the Nemenyi test.2 up-regulated expression of two protein spots (with M/Z of 6 532 and 6 809). When E2 mitigated the oxidative damage, the expression of one protein spot (M/Z 6 532) was down-regulated. In contrast, ECR down-regulated both of protein spots (M/Z 6 532 and 6 809). could effectively inhibite H2O2 induced oxidative damage in HLE-B3 cells. The protein spot at M/Z of 6 532 might be the target spot of ECR against oxidative damage induced by H2O2.
,   A sensitive and simple method was developed for the quantitation of levodopa and its metabolite 3-O-methyldopa, in human plasma, after oral administration of tablet formulations containing levodopa (200 mg) and benserazide (50 mg). The analytes were extracted by a protein precipitation procedure, using carbidopa as an internal standard. A mobile phase consisting of 0.2% formic acid and acetonitrile (94:6, v/v) was used and chromatographic separation was achieved using ACE C(18) column (50 mm×4.6 mm i.d.; 5 μm particle size). Selected reaction monitoring was performed using the fragmentation transitions m/z 198→m/z 107, m/z 212→m/z 166 and m/z 227→m/z 181 for levodopa, 3-O-methyldopa and carbidopa, respectively. Calibration curves were constructed over the range 50.0-6000.0 ng/mL for levodopa and 25.0-4000.0 ng/mL for 3-O-methyldopa. The method shown to be specific, precise, accurate and provided recovery rates higher than 85% for all analytes. No matrix effect was detected in the samples. The validated method was applied in a pharmacokinetic study with a levodopa/benserazide tablet formulation in healthy volunteers.
,   The nonlinear propagation of Gardner solitons (GSs) in a nonplanar (cylindrical and spherical) four-component dusty plasma (composed of inertial positively and negatively dust, Boltzmann electrons, and ions) is studied by the reductive perturbation method. The modified Gardner equation is derived and numerically solved. It has been found that the basic characteristics of the dust-acoustic (DA) GSs, which are shown to exist for μ around its critical value μ(c) [where μ=Z(dp)m(dn)/Z(dn)m(dp), Z(dn) (Z(dp)) is the number of electrons (protons) residing on a negative (positive) dust, m(dp) (m(dn)) is the mass of the positive (negative) dust, μ(c) is the value of μ corresponding to the vanishing of the nonlinear coefficient of the Korteweg-de Vries (KdV) equation, e.g., μ(c)≃0.174 for μ(e)=n(e0)/Z(dn)n(dn0)=0.2, μ(i)=n(i0)/Z(d)}n(dn0)=0.4, and σ=T(i)/T(e)=0.1, n(e0), n(i0), and n(dn0) are, respectively, electron, ion, and dust number densities, and T(i) (T(e)) is the ion (electron) temperature], are different from those of the KdV solitons, which do not exist for μ around μ(c). It has been also found that the propagation characteristics of nonplanar DA GSs significantly differ from those of planar ones.
,   A cDNA clone coding for a sea urchin histone H2A variant has been isolated. The coding region of the clone has been sequenced and the sequence found to be closely related to the H2A.F sequence in chickens. The nucleotide sequence of the sea urchin H2A.F/Z is 74% conserved when compared to chicken H2A.F and 51% conserved compared to sea urchin H2A early and 60% compared to sea urchin H2A late. The nucleotide-derived amino acid comparisons show that H2A.F/Z is 97% homologous with H2A.F in chickens and 57% and 56% homologous when compared to sea urchin H2A early and late respectively. There are between 3-6 copies of the H2A.F/Z sequence in the S. purpuratus genome. The H2A.F/Z gene sequence codes for the previously identified H2A.Z protein. All embryonic stages and adult tissues tested contain mRNA for H2A.F/Z. The mRNA appears in the poly A+ RNA fraction after chromatography over oligo dT cellulose.
,   A filamentous fungus, Cunninghamella elegans ATCC 9245, was used as a microbial model of mammalian metabolism to biotransform doxepin, a tricyclic antidepressant drug. Doxepin is produced as an 85:15% mixture of the trans- (E) and cis- (Z) forms. After 96 h of incubation in Sabouraud dextrose broth, 28% of the drug was metabolized to 16 metabolites. No change in the trans- (E) and cis- (Z) ratio of doxepin was observed. Metabolites were isolated by reversed phase HPLC and identified by (1)H NMR and mass spectroscopic analysis. The major metabolites were (E)-2-hydroxydoxepin, (E)-3-hydroxydoxepin, (Z)-8-hydroxydoxepin, (E)-2-hydroxy-N-desmethyldoxepin, (E)-3-hydroxy-N-desmethyldoxepin, (E)-4-hydroxy-N-desmethyldoxepin, (Z)- and (E)-8-hydroxy-N-desmethyldoxepin, (E)-N-acetyl-N-desmethyldoxepin, (E)-N-desmethyl-N-formyldoxepin, (E)-N-acetyldidesmethyldoxepin, (E)-and (Z)-doxepin-N-oxide, and (E)- and (Z)-N-desmethyldoxepin. Six of the metabolites produced by C. elegans were essentially similar to those obtained in human metabolism studies, although nine novel metabolites were identified.
,   Electrophoretic analysis of esterase, acid phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and alcohol dehydrogenase isoenzymes was performed in 39 strains classified into six species of the yeast genus Zygosaccharomyces. The electrophoretic profiles obtained allowed the clear separation of Z. bailii, Z. bisporus, Z. florentinus, Z. lentus, Z. mellis and Z. rouxii, strains of the latter species clustering into two subgroups. Furthermore, this methodology enabled the detection of misidentified strains, as subsequently confirmed by DNA-DNA reassociation and sequencing of the D1/D2 domain of the 26S rRNA gene. Cluster analysis of the global electrophoretic data and those obtained using only two of the isoenzyme systems, esterase and lactate dehydrogenase, yielded similar grouping of the strains examined, indicating that these enzymes are good markers for the differentiation of Zygosaccharomyces species.
,   The RNA-dependent protein kinase PKR plays a central role in the antiviral defense of vertebrates by shutting down protein translation upon detection of viral dsRNA in the cytoplasm. In some teleost fish, PKZ, a homolog of PKR, performs the same function, but surprisingly, instead of dsRNA binding domains, it harbors two Z-DNA/Z-RNA-binding domains belonging to the Zalpha domain family. Zalpha domains have also been found in other proteins, which have key roles in the regulation of interferon responses such as ADAR1 and DNA-dependent activator of IFN-regulatory factors (DAI) and in viral proteins involved in immune response evasion such as the poxviral E3L and the Cyprinid Herpesvirus 3 ORF112. The underlying mechanism of nucleic acids binding and stabilization by Zalpha domains is still unclear. Here, we present two crystal structures of the zebrafish PKZ Zalpha domain (DrZalpha(PKZ)) in alternatively organized complexes with a (CG)6 DNA oligonucleotide at 2 and 1.8 Å resolution. These structures reveal novel aspects of the Zalpha interaction with DNA, and they give insights on the arrangement of multiple Zalpha domains on DNA helices longer than the minimal binding site. 
,   The present research deals with the multi-collection of the most important sesquiterpene alcohols belonging to sandalwood essential oil, as reported by the international regulations: (Z)-α-santalol, (Z)-α-trans bergamotol, (Z)-β-santalol, epi-(Z)-β-santalol, α-bisabolol, (Z)-lanceol, and (Z)-nuciferol. A versatile multidimensional preparative system, based on the hyphenation of liquid and gas chromatography techniques, was operated in the LC-GC-GC-prep or GC-GC-GC-prep configuration, depending on the concentration to be collected from the sample, without any hardware or software modification. The system was equipped with a silica LC column in combination with polyethylene glycol-poly(5% diphenyl/95% dimethylsiloxane)-medium polarity ionic liquid or β-cyclodextrin based GC stationary phases. The GC-GC-GC-prep configuration was exploited for the collection of four components, by using a conventional split/splitless injector, while the LC-GC-GC-prep approach was applied for three low abundant components (<5%), in order to increase the quantity collected within a single run, by the LC injection of a high sample amount. All target compounds, whose determination is hampered by the unavailability of commercial standards, were collected at milligram levels and with a high degree of purity (>87%). 
,   Two novel Pediococcus strains, Z-1 and Z-8(T), were isolated from a distilled-spirit-fermenting cellar in Hebei Province, China. The cells were Gram-positive, non-spore-forming, non-motile cocci, occurring in pairs or tetrads. The strains were facultatively anaerobic and produced 50 % (-)-D-/50% (+)-L-lactic acid exclusively from glucose fermentation, but did not produce catalase. Both strains fermented rhamnose, ribose, xylose, lactose, maltose, trehalose and sucrose, and tolerated 10% ethanol. The mean G+C content of the two strains was 38+/-1 mol% (37 mol% for the type strain, Z-8(T)). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain Z-8(T) clustered within the Pediococcus damnosus-Pediococcus inopinatus-Pediococcus parvulus group, with 98.3-98.5% 16S rRNA gene similarity. DNA-DNA relatedness between strain Z-8(T) and P. damnosus LMG 11484(T), P. inopinatus LMG 11409(T) and P. parvulus LMG 11486(T) was 19+/-4, 35+/-5 and 31+/-5%, respectively. Therefore, based on the distinctive phenotypic characteristics, and genotypic and phylogenetic analyses, a novel Pediococcus species, Pediococcus cellicola sp. nov., is proposed. The type strain is Z-8(T) (=AS 1.3787(T)=LMG 22956(T)).
,   We introduce a method for non-invasively mapping fiber orientation in materials and biological tissues using intermolecular multiple-quantum coherences. The nuclear magnetic dipole field of water molecules is configured by a CRAZED sequence to encode spatial distributions of material heterogeneities. At any given point r in space, we obtain the spherical coordinates of fiber orientation (theta,phi) with respect to the external field by comparing three signals ||G(X)||, ||(Y)||, and ||G(Z)|| (modulus), acquired with linear gradients applied along the X, Y, and Z axes, respectively. For homogeneous isotropic materials, a subtraction ||G(Z)|| - ||G(X)|| - ||G(Y)|| gives zero. With anisotropic materials, we find an empirical relationship relating ||G(Z)|| - ||G(X)|| - ||G(Y)||/(||G(X)|| + ||G(Y)|| + ||G(Z)||) to the polar angle theta, while ||G(X|| - ||G(Y)||/(||G(X)|| + ||G(Y)|| + ||G(Z)||) is related to the azimuthal angle phi. Experiments in structured media confirm the structural sensitivity. This technique can probe length scales not accessible by conventional MRI and diffusion tensor imaging.
,   Pathological fractures are common in pediatric neuromuscular disorders. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry has become the most accepted technique for the measurement of bone mineral density (BMD) in adults and children. Limited data are available on BMD in pediatric neuromuscular diseases except Duchenne muscular dystrophy.retrospectively analyzed the results of all dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scans done in a period of 23 months at a tertiary care pediatric neuromuscular center. BMD was performed on spine region L1-4. Osteopenia was classified as mild if the Z scores were between 0 and -1.5, moderate if Z scores were between -1.5 and -2.5, and severe if Z scores were > -2.5 standard deviation scores.hty-four dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scans were performed on 79 patients between the ages of 4 months and 18 years with the mean age of 8 years. Z scores were used to compare their BMDs. BMD was lowest in patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) with Z score of -2.25 +/- 0.31 standard deviation scores. The Z score for patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy was -1.72 +/- 0.1. The BMD in nonambulatory patients with SMA was significantly decreased compared with ambulatory patients with SMA (P < 0.05).conclude that osteopenia is common in children with neuromuscular disorders. Patients with SMA have the lowest BMD.
,   The combination of NMR, MS, and CD data permitted the structural elucidation including the absolute configuration of the known alkaloids and unknown components in the extract matrix solution of Nandina domestica without isolation and sample purification prior to the coupling experiments. Unstable natural stereoisomers were identified by LC-NMR and LC-MS. Five known alkaloids, (S)-isoboldine, (S)-domesticine, (S)-nantenine, sinoacutine, and menispermine, were identified from N. domestica. O-Methylpallidine and (E, E)-, (E, Z)-, and (Z, Z)-terrestribisamide were also characterized for the first time from this plant. Known jatrorrhizine, palmatine, and berberine and unknown (R)-carnegine and (E, E)-, (E, Z)-, and (Z, Z)-terrestribisamide were identified in the callus of N. domestica.
,   In present work we studied the morphological features of the esophageal mucosa in 63 children with endoscopic diagnosis of the distal esophagitis having overweight and normal weight of a body. The biopsies were taken at level of 3 cm above a Z-line and at level of 1 cm above a Z-line. Dystrophic and dysregenerative changes were revealed at the majority of children and half of children had inflammatory changes of the esophageal mucosa regardless of weight of a body. These changes are more pronounced at level of 1 cm above a Z-line, their occurrence decreases with a distance from low esophageal sphincter. We used the pathology score system for assess the esophageal biopsies. According our scale we obtained following results: at level of 1 cm above Z-lines at 95% of children had the normal, minimum or mild features of esophagitis regardless of weight of a body. Morphological evidence of a reflux esophagitis was diagnosed statistically more often at level of 1 cm above Z lines in comparison with level of 3 cm above Z-lines (p < 0.01) as among children with overweight of the body (78 and 43% accordingly), and among children with normal weight of the body (78 and 35% accordingly). The obtained data will be allowed to avoid hyperdiagnostics of esophageal lesions in children.
,   We use the theory of counterion condensation to calculate the potential of mean force between a charged planar wall and an oppositely charged ion of unsigned valence Z. We find two solutions to this problem, an outer potential when the Z-ion is relatively far from the wall and an inner one when it is relatively close. There is a discontinuous upward jump from one to the other branch, as the Z-ion approaches the wall. The jump must occur at the wall itself, and we attribute it to interaction with the condensed layer of counterions which resides on the wall. At an infinitesimal distance from the wall, the Z-ion encounters a repulsive force resisting penetration of the condensed layer. Then, when the Z-ion penetrates the condensed layer, Z univalent counterions are released from the condensed layer into the bulk solution, maintaining the effective charge on the wall at an invariant critical value. We discuss the possible connections of the theory with published data from molecular dynamics simulations on lipid bilayers.
,   Arenaviruses are enveloped, negative-strand RNA viruses. For several arenaviruses, virus-like particle (VLP) formation requires the viral matrix Z protein. However, the mechanism by which viral ribonucleoprotein complexes are incorporated into virions is poorly understood. Here, we show that the expression of the Z protein and nucleoprotein (NP) of Mopeia virus, a close relative of the pathogenic Lassa virus, resulted in the highly selective incorporation of the NP protein into Z protein-induced VLPs. Moreover, the Z protein promoted the association of NP with cellular membranes, suggesting that the association of NP, Z, and the cellular membranes may facilitate the efficient incorporation of NP into VLPs. By employing a series of NP deletion constructs and testing their VLP incorporation, we further demonstrated an important role for the C-terminal half of NP in its incorporation into VLPs.
,   The aim of the study was to compare 4 cm with 16 cm Z-axis coverage in the assessment of brain CT perfusion (CTP) using. 320 slice multidetector CT METHODS: A retrospective non-randomised review of CTP performed on MD320 CT between September 2008 and January 2009 was undertaken. Two experienced readers reviewed the studies along with the 4 cm and 16 cm Z-axis CTP image data set. The outcome parameters assessed were the extent of the original finding, any additional findings and a change of diagnosis.out of 27 patients were found to have abnormal CTP (mean age 58.1 years, 9 male). The 16 cm Z-axis increased the accuracy of the infarct core in 78% and ischaemic penumbra quantification in 100% of the cases. It also diagnosed additional infarcts in the same vascular territory in 28% of cases and in a different vascular territory in 14%. increased field of view with MD320 better defines the true extent of the infarct core and ischaemic penumbra. It also identified other areas of infarction that were not identified on the 4 cm Z-axis.
,   FtsA, a member of the ATPase superfamily that includes actin and bacterial actin homologs, is essential for cell division of Escherichia coli and is recruited to the Z ring. In turn, recruitment of later essential division proteins to the Z ring is dependent on FtsA. In a polar recruitment assay, we found that FtsA can recruit at least two late proteins, FtsI and FtsN, to the cell poles independently of Z rings. Moreover, a unique structural domain of FtsA, subdomain 1c, which is divergent in the other ATPase superfamily members, is sufficient for this recruitment but not required for the ability of FtsA to localize to Z rings. Surprisingly, targeting the 1c subdomain to the Z ring by fusing it to FtsZ could partially suppress a thermosensitive ftsA mutation. These results suggest that subdomain 1c of FtsA is a completely independent functional domain with an important role in interacting with a septation protein subassembly.
,   Change point detectors (CPDs) are used to segment recordings of single molecules for the purpose of kinetic analysis. The assessment of the accuracy of CPD algorithms has usually been based on testing them with simulated data. However, there have not been methods to assess the output of CPDs from real data independent of simulation. Here we present one method to do this based on the assumption that the elementary kinetic unit is a stationary period (SP) with a normal distribution of samples, separated from other SPs by change points (CPs). Statistical metrics of normality can then be used to assess SPs detected by a CPD algorithm (detected SPs, DSPs). Two statistics in particular were found to be useful, the z-transformed skew (S(Z)) and z-transformed kurtosis (K(Z)). K(Z)(S(Z)) plots of DSP from noise, simulated data and single ion channel recordings showed that DSPs with false negative CP could be distinguished. Also they showed that filtering had a significant effect on the normality of data and so filtering should be taken into account when calculating statistics. This method should be useful for analyzing single molecule recordings where there is no simple model for the data.
,   RNA editing by A-to-I modification has been recognized as an important molecular mechanism for generating RNA and protein diversity. In mammals, it is mediated by a family of adenosine deaminases that act on RNAs (ADARs). The large version of the editing enzyme ADAR1 (ADAR1-L), expressed from an interferon-responsible promoter, has a Z-DNA/Z-RNA binding domain at its N-terminus. We have tested the in vitro ability of the enzyme to act on a 50 bp segment of dsRNA with or without a Z-RNA forming nucleotide sequence. A-to-I editing efficiency is markedly enhanced in presence of the sequence favoring Z-RNA. In addition, an alteration in the pattern of modification along the RNA duplex becomes evident as reaction times decrease. These results suggest that the local conformation of dsRNA molecules might be an important feature for target selectivity by ADAR1 and other proteins with Z-RNA binding domains.
,   Understanding the relationship between calcium absorption and growth has been limited. We have developed a database of calcium absorption measurements in 315 girls aged 5.0-15.0 yr.have used this database to assess the relationship between height, its age- and gender-normalized value (height Z-score), and calcium absorptive efficiency.rall, height was significantly related to calcium absorption (corrected for calcium intake, age, Tanner, stage, and ethnicity) (P = 0.001). Similarly, height Z-score was significantly related to calcium absorption (P < 0.007). About 3-3.5% of the variability (eta2) of absorption was associated with height or height Z-score. We found that calcium absorption was significantly lower in girls with height Z-score equal to or less than zero compared with those with a height Z-score more than zero (difference, 3.9 +/- 1.4%, mean +/- sem; P = 0.007). Limiting the analysis to those girls in which Tanner staging was performed or those age 9 yr or older did not substantively affect these relationships.se results indicate that a small but significant component of the variability in calcium absorption is due to height. Identifying genetic risk factors for lowered calcium absorption during growth could lead to individual approaches for prevention of inadequate bone mass.
,   Protein Z is a vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein isolated and characterized from human and bovine plasma. A cDNA coding for human protein Z has been obtained by the isolation of phage clones from a liver cDNA library and in vitro amplification of two other liver libraries. Protein Z is synthesized with a prepro-leader sequence of 40 amino acids. The mature protein is composed of 360 residues including a Gla domain of 13 carboxyglutamic acid residues, two epidermal growth factor domains, and a carboxyl terminal region which is highly homologous to the catalytic domain of serine proteases. Human protein Z, however, contains an Asp instead of Ser and a Lys instead of His in the catalytic triad of the active site.
,   Commercially important traits of domestic animals have often been genetically linked to sex chromosomes, such as the Z chromosome of chickens. Using a backcross mapping population between two divergent, inbred lines and random-amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR markers, a genetic map of the chicken Z chromosome has been generated. Thirteen Z-linked RAPD markers were identified, mapped, and linked to two RFLPs and one phenotypic marker. The protocol used also generated RAPD markers for the W chromosome. The linkage distances obtained suggest that the RAPD markers are widely distributed throughout the Z chromosome and are likely to be linked to most or all traits of interest on this chromosome. The map provides a preliminary estimate of genetic to physical distance of about 0.5 Mb per centimorgan for the Z chromosome in chickens (male-specific recombination). A similar approach should be applicable to facilitate the mapping and analysis of sex-linked traits in other domestic animals.
,   The replacement of one of the carbonyl groups in a 1,2,3-triketone-2-naphthylhydrazone with a pyridine ring yields an original molecular switch that can be switched fully, effectively, and reversibly between the E and Z configurations. This hydrazone-based, pH-controlled, molecular switch is the first example of a chemically controlled configurational rotary switch. The bistable switch exists primarily (97%) as the E configuration in solution and can be converted quantitatively to the Z-H(+) configuration upon treatment with trifluoroacetic acid. When Z-H(+) is passed over a plug of K(2)CO(3), the "metastable" Z configuration is observed using (1)H NMR spectroscopy, which thermally equilibrates to give back the E configuration. The rate of this process is dependent on the polarity of the solvent, indicating that the E/Z isomerization takes place via a rotation around the hydrazone C=N bond.
,   The automation of single particle selection and tomographic segmentation of asymmetric particles and objects is facilitated by continuing improvement of methods based on the detection of pixel discontinuity. Here, we present the new arbitrary z-crossings approach which can be employed to enhance the accuracy of edge detection algorithms that are based on the second derivative. This is demonstrated using the Laplacian of Gaussian (LoG) filter. In its normal implementation the LoG filter uses a z value of zero to define edge contours. In contrast, the arbitrary z-crossings approach allows the user to adjust z, which causes the subsequently generated contours to tend towards lighter or darker image objects, depending on the sign of z. This functionality has been coupled with an additional feature: the ability to use the major and minor axes of bounding contours to hone automated object selection. In combination, these features significantly enhance the accuracy of particle selection and the speed of tomographic segmentation. Both features have been incorporated into the software package Swarm(PS) in which parameters are automatically adjusted based on user defined target selection.
,   To assess change in abdominal obesity in adolescents in England.lth Survey for England (HSE), annual cross-sectional surveys of nationally representative samples in England.s study included 1770 children aged 11-16 years in HSE 2005-2007 with valid waist circumference (WC) measurements. WC and body mass index (BMI) were expressed as standard deviation scores (z scores) against the growth references used for British children.n WC z scores were substantially higher than mean BMI z scores for both sexes: WC 1.0 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.93-1.1], BMI 0.54 (95% CI 0.44-0.63) for boys; WC 1.3 (95% CI 1.2-1.4), BMI 0.48 (95% CI 0.40-0.56) for girls (both P < 0.001). Mean WC z score was higher for girls than boys (P < 0.001). Between 1997 and 2005-2007, WC increased for both boys (P < 0.01) and girls (P < 0.001), but BMI did not (P > 0.05). Only children in the lowest WC decile had an increase in WC z score less than +1 standard deviation compared with the 1977-1987 baseline. BMI z score increased across the top nine deciles of the BMI distribution by 0.4 (2nd-4th deciles) to 0.9 (top decile).in adolescents has increased substantially, and probably more than BMI. The whole population has become fatter.
,   Zostera marina (eelgrass) is an important ecological component of many shallow, temperate lagoons. Evidence suggests that Z. marina has a high bicarbonate utilization capability, which could be promoted by possible proton extrusion and the consequent formation of an 'acid zone' in the apoplastic space (unstirred layer) of its leaves. It has been found that 50 mM of the buffer Tris significantly inhibited the photosynthetic O(2) evolution of Z. marina and it was proposed that this was because of Tris's ability to bond with protons outside the cell wall. To investigate if H(+) played an important role in the photosynthetic carbon utilization of Z. marina, it is very important to simultaneously monitor the photosynthesis status and possible H(+) fluxes. However, probably because of the lack of suitable techniques, this has never been attempted. In this study, experiments were undertaken on Z. marina by monitoring H(+) and O(2) fluxes and the relative electron transport rates during light-dark transition. During stable photosynthesis, in addition to an obvious O(2) outflow, there was a significant net H(+) influx connected to Z. marina photosynthesis. The inhibitory effects of both Tris and respiration inhibitors on apparent O(2) evolution of Z. marina were confirmed. However, evidence did not support the proposed Tris inhibition mechanism.
,   Perception of the female sex pheromone in Utetheisa ornatrix (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae) is responsible for induction and adjustment of calling by females and the collective phenomenon termed "female pheromonal chorusing". We found five olfactory-active compounds in the U. ornatrix female gland. When females were exposed to the entire pheromone or to two of its (synthetically prepared) components, (Z,Z,Z)-3,6,9-eicosatriene and (Z,Z,Z)-3,6,9-heneicosatriene, they were more likely to call during a given night, begin calling earlier, and briefly increase signal frequency with which they extrude their abdomen, an observable indication of calling in this species. Some females even initiated calling during photophase when exposed to the pheromone components. In general, female U. ornatrix are more sensitive to the complete blend of pheromone than to its individual compounds. We also tested the hypotheses: 1) that abdominal extrusion per se increases the rate of pheromone release; and 2) that greater abdominal pumping rhythm increases pheromone release rate. Contrary to our expectations: 1) females did not respond more strongly to a pulsed pheromone stimulus than to the constant release of pheromone at the same average release rate; and 2) we did not find a relationship between the frequency of abdominal pumping and pheromone release rate. Possible explanations for these unexpected findings are discussed.
,   Z-ajoene is a garlic-derived compound with known anti-tumour properties. This report argues in favour of pro-apoptotic and cell cycle blockage activities of Z-ajoene on various cell lines involving activation of the p53-family gene products, p53, p63 and p73, at indicated doses. According to its known anti-proteasome activity, Z-ajoene induced a downregulation of MHC-class I expression at the surface of treated cells but did not impair their recognition by CD8+ T cells. We further demonstrated a new activity of Z-ajoene against human cytomegalovirus spreading in vitro that was mediated by an increased number of apoptotic cells after infection. Altogether our data point at the ubiquitous efficiency of Z-ajoene as a new compound to fight against cancers of various origins including those that put up viruses.
,   Z-plasty is one of the most widely used techniques in plastic and reconstructive surgery. It is useful especially to release linear-scar contractures, yet difficult to use for wide scars. The aim of this study was to report on a new technique for the effective release of contractures for wide scars using reversed Z-plasty and its variations.s report describes a novel technique to release contractures effectively for wide scars using reversed Z-plasty and its variation. The design is a reverse style of conventional Z-plasty. In our case series, the reversed three-flap, four-flap Z-plasty or its variation was chosen depending on the width of the contracted scar.performed this technique on 28 patients. All wounds healed well and the scar contracture was satisfactorily released.s procedure is useful and practical for wide-scar contractures.
,   The aroma constituents of Kangra orthodox black tea were isolated by simultaneous distillation extraction (SDE), supercritical fluid extraction and beverage method. The aroma-active compounds were identified using gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry. Geraniol, linalool, (Z/E)-linalool oxides, (E)-2-hexenal, phytol, β-ionone, hotrienol, methylpyrazine and methyl salicylate were major volatile constituents in all the extracts. Minor volatile compounds in all the extracts were 2-ethyl-5-methylpyrazine, ethylpyrazine, 2-6,10,14-trimethyl-2-pentadecanone, acetylfuran, hexanoic acid, dihydroactinidiolide and (E/Z)-2,6-nonadienal. The concentrated SDE extract was fractionated into acidic, basic, water-soluble and neutral fractions. The neutral fraction was further chromatographed on a packed silica gel column eluted with pentane and diethyl ether to separate minor compounds. The aroma-active compounds identified using gas chromatography-olfactometry-mass spectrometry were 2-amylfuran, (E/Z)-2,6-nonadienal, 1-pentanol, epoxylinalool, (Z)-jasmone, 2-acetylpyrrole, farnesyl acetone, geranyl acetone, cadinol, cubenol and dihydroactinidiolide. AEDA studies showed 2-hexenal, 3-hexenol, ethylpyrazine, (Z/E)-linalool oxides, linalool, (E/Z)-2,6-nonadienal, geraniol, phenylethanol, β-ionone, hotrienol and dihydroactinidiolide to be odour active components.
,   We have measured the ability of the intercalating drugs proflavine, ethidium bromide, actinomycin D, and bismethidiumspermine to inhibit the salt induced transition of poly(dG-dC) from the B to the Z form. While all of the drugs studied slowed the B to Z transition, the effectiveness of the drugs correlates much better with their DNA binding kinetics than their DNA binding constants. In studies where the binding densities of ethidium and actinomycin were varied we have found that high levels of ethidium, more than 1 per 20 base pairs, were required to inhibit the B to Z transition while low levels of actinomycin, less than 1 per 450 base pairs, reduced the transition rate. Studies of the B to Z transition in the presence of both actinomycin and ethidium suggest that the drugs inhibit the transition by different mechanisms. The results are interpreted in terms of a modification of the kinetic model proposed by Pohl and Jovin in which, depending on the DNA binding kinetics of the drug, the drug may inhibit nucleation and/or propagation of the B to Z transition.
,   Sex pheromones are used by insects as a form of chemical communication for the purpose of attracting conspecific mates. Female moths Cadra cautella and Spodoptera exigua use the diene (Z,E)-9,12-tetradecadienyl acetate as the major pheromone component. Biosynthesis of this pheromone component was demonstrated to occur through delta 11 desaturation of hexadecanoic acid (palmitate) to produce (Z)-11-hexadecenoic acid which is then chain-shortened to (Z)-9-tetradecenoic acid. A unique delta 12 desaturase uses the (Z)-9-tetradecenoic acid to produce (Z,E)-9,12-tetradecenoic acid which is reduced and acetylated to form the acetate ester pheromone component. Both moths also use a pheromonotropic peptide to stimulate pheromone biosynthesis.
,   The purpose of this study is to evaluate the relation of bone mineral density (BMD) or the age-matched z score and osteoporotic vertebral fractures. The radiographs and spinal bone mineral density of 131 consecutive postmenopausal patients were retrospectively reviewed. The vertebral fractures between T4 and L4 were graded. Sixty-two patients had no fractures, and 69 had 1 or more fractures. In the nonfracture group, the mean age was 62.6 years, BMD was 0.88 g/cm2, and the z score was -1.00. In the fracture group, the mean age was 69.6 years, BMD was 0.788 g/cm2, and the z score was -1.26. Patients with 2 and 3 or more fractures had a lower mean BMD than that of the nonfracture group (P < .01). The z score (adjusted for age) was significantly lower only in patients with 3+ fractures (P < .05). Patients with grade 2 and grade 3 of any fracture type had significantly lower BMD (P < .01). The z score was lower only in those with grade 3 fracture (P < .05). Our study indicates that the clinical use of BMD z score adjusted for age is a better predictor of severity of vertebral fractures than is BMD alone.
,   Two new, 5-heptadeca-8'Z,11'Z,16-trienylresorcinol (1) and 5-heptadeca-9'E,11'Z,16-trienylresorcinol (2), and six known 5-alkylresorcinols (3-8) were isolated from the mushroom Merulius incarnatus. Compound 2 is the first 5-alkylresorcinol derivative that contains a trans-cis conjugated double bond system. Compounds 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 were found to inhibit methacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) with IC(50) values of 2.5, 15, 9.5, 8.0, 5.0, and 6.5 microg/mL, respectively. Compound 1 was also active against leishmania, with an IC(50) value of 3.6 microg/mL, and showed no cytotoxicity in our Vero cell test up to a concentration of 25 microg/mL. The structures of these isolates were determined by spectroscopic data including 1D and 2D NMR.
,   The pairing behavior of the Z and W chromosomes in the female northern bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus) was analyzed by electron microscopy of silver-stained synaptonemal complexes (SCs). After autosomal pairing was completed, synapsis of the sex chromosomes initiated at the short-arm end of the W chromosome and one end of the Z chromosome. Synapsis then progressed unidirectionally, producing a sex bivalent in which the entire length of the W axis was paired with an equivalent length of the Z axis. Progressive contraction and asymmetrical twisting of the Z axis ultimately resulted in a fully paired configuration with aligned axial ends. Further contraction of the Z axis reduced the extent of asymmetrical twisting such that only the nonaligned centromeric regions distinguished the SC of the ZW bivalent from SCs of similar-sized autosomes in late-pachytene nuclei. Quantitative analyses indicated that the length of the Z axis shortened significantly during the adjustment process, whereas no significant difference occurred in the length of the W axis. The nonalignment of the centromeric regions during transitional stages of ZW synapsis indicates that direct heterosynapsis of nonhomologous segments, followed by axial equalization of the length inequality, is responsible for the length adjustment during synapsis in the sex chromosomes of the bobwhite quail.
,   Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and z-Nose were used as screening tools for the identification and classification of honey from different floral sources. Honey samples were scanned using microattenuated total reflectance spectroscopy in the region of 600-4000 cm(-1). Spectral data were analyzed by principal component analysis, canonical variate analysis, and artificial neural network for classification of the different honey samples from a range of floral sources. Classification accuracy near 100% was achieved for clover (South Dakota), buckwheat (Missouri), basswood (New York), wildflower (Pennsylvania), orange blossom (California), carrot (Louisiana), and alfalfa (California) honey. The same honey samples were also analyzed using a surface acoustic wave based z-Nose technology via a chromatogram and a spectral approach, corrected for time shift and baseline shifts. On the basis of the volatile components of honey, the seven different floral honeys previously mentioned were successfully discriminated using the z-Nose approach. Classification models for FTIR and z-Nose were successfully validated (near 100% correct classification) using 20 samples of unknown honey from various floral sources. The developed FTIR and z-Nose methods were able to detect the floral origin of the seven different honey samples within 2-3 min based on the developed calibrations.
,   Analysis of the sex pheromone gland of virgin Synanthedon scoliaeformis females by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry revealed six compounds structurally related to sex pheromone components of other clearwing moths: (E,Z)-2,13-octadecadienyl acetate (E2,Z13-18:OAc), (E,Z)-2,13-octadecadienol, octadecanol acetate, octadecanol, (Z,Z)-3,13-octadecadienyl acetate (Z3,Z13-18:OAc), and (Z)-13-octadecenyl acetate. Trapping tests demonstrated that E2,Z13-18:OAc is the sex pheromone of S. scoliaeformis and is essential for attracting males; addition of the other compounds did not enhance catch. Synanthedon scoliaeformis and S. tipuliformis are the only Palearctic clearwing moths whose distribution range and seasonal flight periods overlap and that are known to use E2,Z13-18:OAc in sex pheromonal communication. Hourly monitoring of male catches in traps revealed that sex pheromone communication in S. scoliaeformis and S. tipuliformis species follows different diurnal patterns. Z3,Z13-18:OAc, found in S. scoliaeformis females, is a known behavioral antagonist against S. tipuliformis males, while (E,Z)-3,13-octadecadienyl acetate, a minor sex pheromone component of S. tipuliformis, is an antagonist against S. scoliaeformis males. The effect of sex pheromones and antagonists, combined with different diurnal mate searching times, contribute to the specificity of sex communication channels in these two clearwing moth species. 
,   We report on the electronic structure of the 12-vertex icosahedral clusters r-X(2)Z(10)H(12) and Z(12)H(12)(2-), where X = {C, Si} and Z = {B, Al}. The least stable cluster--with the lowest HOMO-LUMO gap (E(g))--corresponds to the ortho-X(2)Z(10)H(12) isomers for all values of X = {C, Si} and Z = {B, Al}. The well-known energetic order E(para) < E(meta) < E(ortho) for r-carboranes is also valid for all compounds except r-C(2)Al(10)H(12). Substitution of two atoms of carbon or silicon into the icosahedral cage B(12)H(12)(2-) enhances considerably the stability of the system as analyzed from E(g) gaps, as opposite to Al(12)H(12)(2-), where similar gaps are found upon double carbon or silicon substitution regardless of the positions in the cage. In order to highlight similarities and differences in the title clusters, topological analysis of the electron density was performed, together with analysis of the deviation from polyhedron icosahedral form with (i) volumes, skewness and kurtosis calculations; and (ii) continuous shape measures.
,   The inverted-T technique is the most popular skin pattern used for mastopexy, but short scar variations have increased in popularity over recent years. With respect to nipple elevation, superior, superomedial, medial, inferior, lateral, and central pedicle designs have been described.introduce a novel concept for mastopexy, the glandular Z-mammaplasty, and assess its anatomic and technical feasibility.ndular Z-plasty was performed on 15 human female cadavers. Various parameters were measured pre- and postoperatively to assess degree of ptosis and subsequently compared by student t test.rage pre and postoperative breast width (28.5 ± 4.7 cm, 26.7 ± 3.2 cm, P = .009), breast length (25 ± 6.6 cm and 21.8 ± 4.3 cm P = .005), breast height (10.7 ± 3.7 cm and 9.5 ± 2.9 cm, P = .02), and ptosis degree (1.9 ± 0.9 cm and 0.3 ± 0.5 cm, P < .0001) were determined. Inferior limb transposition moved the nipple closer to the sternal notch and sternum midline an average of 5.3 ± 2.2 cm and 2.4 ± 1.7 cm, respectively. The average Z-plasty degree was 34.5 ± 8.2°. The average central limb length was 8.7 ± 2.1, and the average pedicle width was 5.4 ± 0.8 cm. Buttress support of the nipple was accomplished by caudal transposition of the superior Z-plasty flap and its inset below the nipple.demonstrate that glandular Z-mammaplasty is indeed feasible. The grade of ptosis was statistically significantly improved, with the nipple moving superiorly an average of 5.3 cm in our study group.
,   Computed tomography images have been acquired using an experimental (low atomic number (Z) insert) megavoltage cone-beam imaging system. These images have been compared with standard megavoltage and kilovoltage imaging systems. The experimental system requires a simple modification to the 4 MeV electron beam from an Elekta Precise linac. Low-energy photons are produced in the standard medium-Z electron window and a low-Z carbon electron absorber located after the window. The carbon electron absorber produces photons as well as ensuring that all remaining electrons from the source are removed. A detector sensitive to diagnostic x-ray energies is also employed. Quantitative assessment of cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) contrast shows that the low-Z imaging system is an order of magnitude or more superior to a standard 6 MV imaging system. CBCT data with the same contrast-to-noise ratio as a kilovoltage imaging system (0.15 cGy) can be obtained in doses of 11 and 244 cGy for the experimental and standard 6 MV systems, respectively. Whilst these doses are high for everyday imaging, qualitative images indicate that kilovoltage like images suitable for patient positioning can be acquired in radiation doses of 1-8 cGy with the experimental low-Z system.
,   To compare the efficacy of goserelin 10.8 mg (Zoladex LA-ZLA) administered 9-12 weekly with 3.6 mg (Zoladex-Z) given monthly in suppressing pubertal development, and effect on body mass index (BMI).ldren with central precocious puberty (CPP) treated with Z (n = 34) or ZLA (n = 28) were studied retrospectively. Pubertal scores and BMI SDS during 24 months' treatment were compared.attain adequate pubertal suppression, more patients on ZLA than Z required increase in injection frequency (p = 0.02) and this was so for 7/8 patients with a structural aetiology for CPP on ZLA and 2/8 on Z. A greater proportion of patients on ZLA had BMI >+2 SDS before (p = 0.05), and at 18 and 24 months (p = 0.02 and 0.04). BMI SDS transiently increased during the first 6 months on ZLA (p = 0.04).h Z and ZLA were effective in suppressing puberty. To achieve adequate suppression, increased injection frequency was more likely with ZLA than Z, and particularly in patients with structural defects. Children with CPP had an elevated BMI at the onset of therapy and ZLA had a transient positive influence on BMI.
,   Our defibrillation-detecting system uses both ECG and right ventricular impedance change (delta Z). We studied the effect of catheter electrode spacing on delta Z in 10 dogs  with body weights of 10 to ,5 kg and heart weights of 67 to 220 g. Impedance to 20-kHz 100--muA square waves was measured between two 1-cm-long electrodes mounted on a No. 12F catheter and wedged into the right ventricular apex. Catheters with spacings of 5 to 25 mm between the electrodes were tested during sinus rhyhm and ventricular fibrillation. During sinus rhythm the mean beat-to-beat delta Z was 23 +/- 4 omega using the 5-mm spacing. Wider spacing gave smaller, and hence less desirable, delta Z. Some delta Z signals were recorded during ventricular fibrillation, and 5-mm spacing was more sensitive to these than wider spacing. This resulted in some prolongation of the time between onset of fibrillation and application of the defibrillation shock, but should decrease false positive diagnosis of fibrillation. No clear relationship was observed between delta Z and body weight or heart weight. We conclude that the 5-mm spacing is best for detection of pumping by the catheter-impedance method in hearts of this weight range.
,   The ratio of Z chromosome number to autosomal chromosome (A) is different between male and female lepidoptera insects. In males: 2Z : 2A=1, and in females: Z : 2A=0.5. The ratio of the copies of gene (such as K) on Z chromosome number to the copies of gene (such as N) on autosomal chromosome (K/N) is also different between male and female. In males: 2K : 2N =1, and in females: K : 2N=0.5. The DpKettin gene of the pine caterpillar Dendrolimus punctatus was cloned with the primers designed according to the sequences of the BmKettin of the silkworm and the HaKettin of the cotton bollworm. The ratio of copies between DpKettin and ANT (adenine nucleotide translocator) in male and female was determined by the real-time quantitative PCR technique. They were 1.0 in males and 0.5 in females. These ratios were equal to the ratios of the copies of gene on Z chromosome number to the copies of gene on autosomal chromosome. It indicates that DpKettin is located on Z chromosome in the genome of the pine caterpillar.
,   In the equilibrium between B-DNA and Z-DNA in poly(dC-dG), the [Co(NH3)6]3+ ion stabilizes the Z form 4 orders of magnitude more effectively than the Mg2+ ion. The structural basis of this difference is revealed in Z-DNA crystal structures of d(CpGpCpGpCpG) stabilized by either Na+/Mg2+ or Na+/Mg2+ plus [Co(NH3)6]3+. The crystals diffract X-rays to high resolution, and the structures were refined at 1.25 A. The [Co(NH3)6]3+ ion forms five hydrogen bonds onto the surface of Z-DNA, bonding to a guanine O6 and N7 as well as to a phosphate group in the ZII conformation. The Mg2+ ion binds through its hydration shell with up to three hydrogen bonds to guanine N7 and O6. Higher charge, specific fitting of more hydrogen bonds, and a more stable complex all contribute to the great effectiveness of [Co(NH3)6]3+ in stabilizing Z-DNA.
,   The amino acid sequence of protein Z has been determined from sequence analysis performed on fragments obtained by chemical and enzymatic degradations. The polypeptide consists of a single chain containing 396 amino acid residues (Mr 43 677). Comparison with the vitamin K-dependent plasma proteins reveals an extensive homology. The N-terminal part, containing 13 gamma-carboxyglutamic acid and one beta-hydroxyaspartic acid residue, is extensively homologous to and of similar length to the light chain of factor X. The remainder of protein Z is homologous to the serine proteases and of similar size to the heavy chain of factor Xa, but of the active site residues only aspartic acid-102 is present. Histidine-57 and serine-195 are replaced in protein Z by threonine and alanine, respectively. The physiological function of protein Z is still uncertain.
,   In the past, the absence of useful 2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (AP4) analogues has hampered the pharmacological study and comparison of different systems which are sensitive to L-AP4. Several conformationally constrained AP4 analogues have now been synthesized: (E)- and (Z)-1-amino-3-phosphonocyclopentanecarboxylic acid [(E)- and (Z)-cyclopentyl AP4], and (E)- and (Z)-1-amino-3-phosphonocyclohexanecarboxylic acid [(E)- and (Z)-cyclohexyl AP4], and the recently synthesized cyclopropyl analogues (E)- and (Z)-2-amino-2,3-methano-4-phosphonobutanoic acid [(E)- and (Z)-cyclopropyl AP4]. Therefore, we have examined and report here the pharmacology of two retinal and two hippocampal L-AP4 sensitive systems using these analogues. In addition, the pharmacology of two kainic acid/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4- propionic acid (KAIN/AMPA) pathways and one N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) hippocampal pathway was examined. We found that the rank order potency of the L-AP4 sensitive systems were similar though not identical. The KAIN/AMPA and NMDA systems had a quite different rank order of potencies than the L-AP4 systems. These data suggest that the L-AP4 receptors in these different systems are structurally similar to each other and differ from both KAIN/AMPA and NMDA receptors.
,   The purpose of this study was to assess bone mineralization in survivors of childhood malignancies.e mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine was measured in 60 patients aged 5.5-20.1 years (mean, 12.4 years) who had no known disease 1.0-14.5 years (mean, 4.3 years) after completing treatment for a malignancy. The age-normalized BMD findings (Z scores) were correlated with multiple variables, including measures of growth and nutrition, type of malignancy, and various treatments, including use of steroids, methotrexate, or cranial irradiation. was normal in most patients with a mean Z score of -0.28 + 0.14 (+/- SE). Only 8% of the patients were more than 2 SDs below age-matched normal BMD. Weight Z score was the major determinant of BMD Z score. Calcium intake and height Z score were also important variables.t survivors of childhood malignancies will not be left with a clinically significant deficit in BMD. Risk factors for diminished BMD include low-weight and low-height Z scores and low calcium intake. Therapeutic interventions are available to address these risk factors in those patients with significantly diminished BMD.
,   The major difference in pheromone production between the so-called E and Z strains of the European corn borer Ostrinia nubilalis is controlled by two alleles at a single autosomal locus. E-strain females produce an (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate pheromone with 1-3% of the Z isomer, whereas Z-strain females produce the opposite blend. In laboratory-reared insects we found that F1 females produced, on average, a 71:29 E/Z ratio, but the distribution was clearly bimodal. The variability in pheromone blend produced by heterozygous females could be explained by the existence of two different alleles in the Z strain which in combination with the E-strain allele for the major production locus cause the production of a component mixture either high or low in the F isomer. In addition, evidence was found for an independently inherited factor, existing in the E strain, with a dominant effect on the amount of E isomer produced by females homozygous for Z-alleles at the major production locus. Thus, the low variability normally found in the pheromone mixture produced by O. nubilalis and other moth females may, by canalization, hide a considerable amount of underlying genetic variation.
,   For object materials having a large enough Rayleigh velocity, the V(z) (where V is the output voltage and z is the defocus distance) variation is mainly due to interference between the fields of the geometrically reflected wave and the leaky Rayleigh wave. However, for materials, such as organic compounds, having a low Rayleigh velocity, the leaky Rayleigh wave is not excited. For this case, the lateral wave resulting from propagation along the surface of the longitudinal wave plays a significant role in determining the V(z) dependence. The effect of the lateral wave contribution on V(z) is studied. Ray optics is to derive an expression giving the influence of the longitudinal lateral wave. Good agreement is found between the theory and measurements for z not near zero. Because of the ease with which the longitudinal wave velocity can be obtained from V(z), one can conveniently determine the elastic constant c(11 ) of isotropic materials using the acoustic microscope.
,   The nuclear DNA amount and the heterochromatin content in species and hybrids of Zea were analyzed in telophase nuclei (2C) of the root apex of germinating seeds. The results revealed significant differences among taxa and also among lines and races of maize. The hybrids between Z. mays ssp. mays x Z. mays ssp. mexicana (2n=20), Z. diploperennis x Z. perennis (2n=30), and Z. diploperennis x Z.perennis (2n=40) showed DNA content intermediate between that of the parents. The number of chromosomal C-bands and the proportion of the genome comprising C-band heterochromatin were positively related to genome size. In the different lines and races of maize studied, there was a positive correlation between genome size and the interval from germination to flowering. Octoploid Z. perennis (2n=40) showed the smallest DNA content per basic genome and the smallest heterochromatic blocks, suggesting that the DNA lost by this species consisted mainly of repetitive sequences. Considering that the extant species of Zea are tetraploid (2n=20) and octoploid (2n=40) and that the ancestral diploids are extinct, any consideration of the direction (increase or decrease) of the DNA change would be entirely speculative. The extant species could be the product of natural and artificial selection acting on different genotypic and nucleotypical constitutions at the diploid and/or tetraploid levels. 
,   Analogs of (Z)-9-tricosene (Z9-23: Hy) bearing methyl substituents, cyclopropyl groups, fluorine substituents, and additional double bonds were used to probe the substrate requirements for the monooxygenase system that converts Z9-23: Hy to the corresponding epoxide and ketone. Three of the seven analogs tested, 10-fluoro-(Z)-14-tricosene, 10,10-difluoro-(Z)-14-tricosene, and 14-methyl-(Z)-9-tricosene, were metabolized to the corresponding epoxide. Compounds with two methyl groups, a cyclopropane group, a hydroxy group, or an additional double bond at the 14 position were not epoxidized at the 9,10 position. This suggests that only minimal structural change at the 14-position of Z9-23: Hy is allowed with retention of metabolic activity. None of the analogs tested were hydroxylated at the position equivalent to the 14 position of Z9-23:Hy. Of the 13 analogs tested as inhibitors of Z9-23:Hy metabolism, the two compounds that were the most effective inhibitors in both male and female houseflies were (Z)-14-tricosen-10-one and 1-nonyl-1-[(Z)-4-tetradecen-1-yl]-cyclopropane. These data show that the poly substrate monooxy genase that metabolizes Z9-23: Hy in the housefly has very strict structural requirements for the substrate. 
,   We analyze the dynamics of structural transitions between normal right-handed B form and unusual left-handed Z form for a linear DNA molecule. The dynamics under the external torque in physiological buffer is modeled by a Langevin equation, with the potential term given by the authors previously [Phys. Rev. E 84, 021926 (2011)]. With this model, we first simulate the relaxation processes around B-form structure after sudden changes of the external torques, where slow relaxation ~t(-1/2) as a function of the elapsed time t is observed. Then, the dynamics of structural transition from Z form to B form is computed under various external torque strength. For small external torques, the transition proceeds via nucleation and the growth, while for higher torques, Z-form structure becomes unstable, and the transition mechanism is switched to a spinodal-like process. These numerical results are qualitatively understood by simple phenomenological arguments.
,   High-resolution laser probing diagnostics at a wavelength of 266 nm allow observation of the internal structure and instabilities in dense stagnated Z pinches, typically hidden by trailing material. The internal structure of the 1-MA Z pinch includes strong kink and sausage instabilities, loops, flares, and disruptions. Mid- and small-scale density perturbations develop in the precursor and main pinch. The three-dimensional shape and dynamics of the wire-array Z pinch are predetermined by the initial configuration of the wire array. Cylindrical, linear, and star wire-array Z pinches present different sets of instabilities seeded to the pinch at the implosion stage. Prolonged implosion of trailing mass can enhance x-ray production in wire arrays. Fast plasma motion with a velocity >100 km/s was observed in the Z pinch at stagnation with two-frame shadowgraphy. Development of instabilities in wire arrays is in agreement with three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamic simulations.
,   The fine architecture of skeletal muscle Z bands is considered in view of stereo electron microscopical evidence and current biochemical and immunological concepts, and a new Z-band model is proposed. This model is based on a looping, interlinking configuration, within the Z band, of strands which emanate from I-band (actin) filaments of adjacent sarcomeres. Two versions of the model seem presently feasible: one in which the Z-band lattice is composed of actin loops; and another in which the same pattern is derived from tropomyosin. Either version satisfies actual electron micrograph images as well as or better than prior Z-band models. Moreover, the principle of looping linkage in filament-to-filament attachment can be related to similar filament patterns seen in several adhesion sites where intracellular filaments insert on cell membranes.
,   The reaction between the chemical carcinogen N-hydroxy-2-aminofluorene and poly (dG-dC) . poly (dG-dC) (B-form), poly (dG-m5dC) . poly (dG-m5dC) (B-or Z-form), poly(dG-br5dC) . poly (dG-br5dC) (Z-form) has been studied. The carcinogen binds covalently to B-DNA but does not bind significantly to Z-DNA. These results are discussed as related to the accessibility, the electrostatic potential and the dynamic structure of DNA. The accessibility and the electrostatic potential of DNA do not explain the difference in reactivity of the carcinogen since a related carcinogen N-acetoxy-N-acetyl-2-aminofluorene binds equally well to both B and Z-DNA. On the other hand, poly (dG-dC) . poly(dG-dC) and poly (dG-br5dC) . poly(dG-br5dC), in presence of ethidium bromide binds equally well to N-hydroxy-2-aminofluorene. It is suggested that the very low binding of this carcinogen to Z-DNA as compared to B-DNA is due to differences in the dynamic structures of these two forms of DNA.
,   This work aimed to investigate chemical composition of essential oils obtained from Zanthoxylum dissitum leaves and roots and their insecticidal activities against several stored product pests, namely the cigarette beetle (Lasioderma serricorne), red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum) and black carpet beetle (Attagenus piceus). The analysis by GC-MS of the essential oils allowed the identification of 28 and 22 components, respectively. It was found that sesquiterpenoids comprised a fairly high portion of the two essential oils, with percentages of 74.0% and 80.9% in the leaves and roots, respectively. The main constituents identified in the essential oil of Z. dissitum leaves were δ-cadinol (12.8%), caryophyllene (12.7%), β-cubebene (7.9%), 4-terpineol (7.5%) and germacrene D-4-ol (5.7%), while humulene epoxide II (29.4%), caryophyllene oxide (24.0%), diepicedrene-1-oxide (10.7%) and Z,Z,Z-1,5,9,9-tetramethyl-1,4,7-cycloundecatriene (8.7%) were the major components in the essential oil of Z. dissitum roots. The insecticidal activity results indicated that the essential oil of Z. dissitum roots exhibited moderate contact toxicity against three species of storage pests, L. serricorne,T. castaneum and A. piceus, with LD50 values of 13.8, 43.7 and 96.8 µg/adult, respectively. 
,   In our efforts to develop hybrid compounds of curcumin and melatonin as potential disease-modifying agents for Alzheimer's disease (AD), a potent lead hybrid compound, Z-CM-I-1, has been recently identified and biologically characterized in vitro. In this work, we report the in vivo effects of Z-CM-I-1 on AD pathologies in an APP/PS1 transgenic AD model. Our studies demonstrated that Z-CM-I-1 significantly decreased the accumulation of Aβ in the hippocampus and cortex regions of the brain and reduced inflammatory responses and oxidative stress after treatment for 12 weeks at 50 mg/kg per dose via oral administration. Furthermore, Z-CM-I-1 significantly improved synaptic dysfunction evidenced by the increased expression of synaptic marker proteins, PSD95 and synaptophysin, indicating its protective effects on synaptic degeneration. Lastly, we demonstrated that Z-CM-I-1 significantly increased the expression level of complexes I, II, and IV of the mitochondria electron transport chain in the brain tissue of APP/PS1 mice. Collectively, these results clearly suggest that Z-CM-I-1 is orally available and exhibits multifunctional properties in vivo on AD pathologies, thus strongly encouraging further development of this lead compound as a potential disease-modifying agent for AD patients. 
,   A positively charged protein domain, Z(basic), can be used as a general purification tag to achieve efficient recovery of recombinantly produced target proteins using cation-exchange chromatography. To construct a protein domain usable for ion-exchange chromatography, the surface of protein Z was engineered to be highly charged, which allowed for selective capture of target proteins on a cation-exchanger at physiological pH values. Interestingly, the novel domain, denoted Z(basic), was shown to be selective also under denaturing conditions and could preferably be used for purification of proteins solubilised from inclusion bodies. Moreover, a flexible process for solid-phase refolding was developed, using Z(basic) as a reversible linker to the cation-exchanger resin. This procedure has the inherited advantage of combining purification and refolding into a single step and still enabling elution of a concentrated product in a suitable buffer. This article summarizes development and use of the Z(basic) tag in small and pilot-plant-scale downstream processing.
,   It has been previously shown that the magnitude of adjustment of a treatment effect Z value for a baseline covariate depends on both the degree of disparity of the covariate between the treatment groups and the degree of correlation between the covariate and the outcome variable. In this article, the magnitude of adjustment is further explored and tabulated for a variety of situations. Theoretically, the magnitude of adjustment may be great, for example, from Z = 3.0 unadjusted to 13.1 adjusted, or Z = 2.0 unadjusted to -1.6 adjusted. However, in more practically realistic situations the magnitude of adjustment will generally fall in the range of 1 to 2 standard error units, when the Z value for disparity of the covariate between the treatment groups is as great as +/- 3. If there is perfect comparability of treatment groups with respect to baseline covariate, there may still be a sizable difference between adjusted and unadjusted Z value for treatment effect, with adjusted almost always greater in absolute value than unadjusted Z value.
,   A method for the determination of flunitrazepam (FNZ) and 7-aminoflunitrazepam (7-AFNZ) in human serum was developed with ion trap gas chromatography (GC)-tandem mass spectrometry. The 7-AFNZ was derivatizated with 50 microl trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA), 60 degrees C-20 min. EI mass spectra and tandem mass spectra of FNZ and 7-AFNZ-TFA were m/z 238, 239, 266, 286, 294, 312, 313(M(+)), m/z 350, 351, 360, 378, 379(M(+)), m/z 238, 239, 240 (precursor ion m/z 286, collision energy 1.5 V), and m/z 239, 254, 264, 336 (precursor ion m/z 351, collision energy 1.8 V), respectively. The detection limits of full scan EI mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry for FNZ and 7-AFNZ in human serum were ca. 200 ng/ml, 60 ng/ml, 15 ng/ml and 1 ng/ml, respectively.
,   We describe a new genus of grylline cricket, Zebragryllus Desutter-Grandcolas & Cadena-Casteñada n. gen., from the Neotropical Region, using characters of morphology and male genitalia; genitalic characters clearly show that Zebragryllus n. gen. is closely related to Anurogryllus Saussure, 1878. Six species are described as new to science, origina<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1463-6409.2003.00142.x">t</a>ing from western (Peru, Colombia) and eastern (French Guiana) Amazonia: Zebragryllus fuscus Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Z. guianensis Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Z. intermedius Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Zebragryllus nauta Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Zebragryllus nouragui Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., and Zebragryllus wittoto Desutter-Grandcolas and Cadena-Casteñada, n. sp., type species of the genus. They are characterized by their size, coloration (shining black, most often with white patterns of coloration, hence the genus name), and male and female genitalia. The calling songs of Z. guianensis Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Z. intermedius Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., Z. nouragui Desutter-Grandcolas, n. sp., and Z. wittoto Desutter-Grandcolas and Cadena-Casteñada, n. sp. are described. An identification key is proposed for both males and females. 
,   In this study, we describe the development of a novel, compact, and long range in-plane XYθ(z) nano-positioning stage with piezoelectric actuator and flexure mechanism. The stage is composed of an X-directional motion part and a Y, θ(z)-directional motion part, which are linked serially. The stage consists of a bridge-type amplifying mechanism for the amplification of deformation of the piezoelectric actuator, a double compound guide mechanism for performing only desired motion, and a circular hinge mechanism that permits rotational motion in the Y and θ(z)-stages. To set the design variables of the stage, optimal design is carried out. To verify the results of the optimal design process and the performance of the stage, the FEM simulation and experiment are carried out. The proposed XYθ(z) nano-positioning stage has a translational motion range of 700 μm and a rotational motion range of 0.3°; it has a closed-loop resolution of 5 nm, 5 nm, and 0.025 arcsec in the X-, Y-, and θ(z)-directional motions, respectively. The proposed stage is a novelty in that it has a compact size of 200 × 200 × 30 mm(3), and decoupled kinematic design.
,   A method for performing mass-selective instability analysis in a three-dimensional (3-D) quadrupole ion trap is described that involves scanning a direct current (dc) voltage applied to the end-cap electrodes while holding the radio frequency (rf) potential at a fixed value. Rather than eject at the ß(z) = 1 instability line by ramping the amplitude of the drive rf potential applied to the ring electrode, as with the original mass-selective instability scan, this approach effects ion ejection along the ß(z) = 0 instability line in a process identical in principle (though it varies in its method of implementation) to the previously termed "downscan" (       Todd  ,   J. F. J.     ;      Penman  ,   A. D.     ;     Smith  ,   R. D.       Int. J. Mass Spectrom. Ion Processes     1991  ,   106  ,   117 - 135  ). A linear scan of the dc amplitude results in a nonlinear mass scale, unlike the conventional resonance ejection scan with a linear scan of the rf amplitude, and the ejection of ions in the direction of high mass-to-charge (m/z) to low m/z. However, the downscan offers some advantages over the traditional rf scan for ions of high m/z values. These include a larger scannable mass range, as well as the opportunity for improved resolution at high mass. These characteristics are demonstrated with ions of m/z 10(4)-10(5).
,   A model is proposed to describe the influence pH on the heat resistance of Bacillus cereus spores. In addition to the conventional z value, the effect of pH on the thermal resistance of spores is characterised by a z(pH) value (z(pH) is the distance of pH from a reference pH*, which leads to a 10-fold reduction of D value). The type of organic acid used for acidifying the heating medium, influences the z(pH) value. For nine organic acids, a linear relationship between the calculated z(pH) value and its lower acid pKa is observed. This relationship showed that the acid form (dissociated or undissociated) modifies the thermal spore resistance in addition to the H+ ion. The influence of acetic acid concentration on the D value at pH 7 shows the protective effect of the dissociated acid form on the heat resistance of spores. The acid concentration in the medium modified the heat resistance of spore and the z(pH) value.
,   Feather mites of the family Avenzoariidae (Acari: Astigmata: Analgoidea) are recorded for the first time in Saudi Arabia. A new avenzoariid species, Zachvatkinia (Zachvatkinia) repressae sp. n. (Avenzoariidae: Bonnetellinae), is described from the White-cheeked Tern, Sterna repressa Hartert, 1916 (Charadriiformes: Stemidae). The new species belongs to the sternae group and is closely related to Z (Z.) chlidoniae Mironov, 1989a. Two more species, Z. (Z.) dromae Mironov, 1992 and Z. (Z.) sternae (Canestrini & Fanzago, 1876), were collected from the Crab Plover Dromas ardeola Paykull, 1805 (Charadriiformes: Dromadidae) and the Sooty Gull Ichthyaetus hemprichii (Bruch, 1853) (Charadriiformes: Laridae), respectively. Among the 18 described species of Zachvatkinia Dubinin, 1949, including the new species, this is the fifth species recorded from a sternid host. The remaining 13 nominal species are associated with birds of the families Diomedeidae, Dromadidae, Hydrobatidae, Laridae, Pelecanoididae, Procellariidae and Stercorariidae. A checklist of world species of Zachvatkinia with data on their distribution and type hosts is also provided.
,   Zingiber officinale is being used as diet-based therapy because of its wide therapeutic potential in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and against diabetic complications by directly interacting with different molecular and cellular pathways that provoke the pathogenesis of T2DM. This article explores the overall beneficial effects of Z. officinale on T2DM and its associated complications. Along with elucidating the beneficial facts of Z. officinale, this article may also aid in understanding the molecular basis of its effects in T2DM. The mechanistic rationale for antidiabetic effects of Z. officinale includes the inhibition of several transcriptional pathways, lipid peroxidation, carbohydrate-metabolizing enzymes, and HMG-CoA reductase and the activation of antioxidant enzyme capacity and low-density lipoprotein receptors. Consequently, by targeting these pathways, Z. officinale shows its antidiabetic therapeutic effects by increasing insulin sensitivity/synthesis, protecting β-cells of pancreatic islets, reducing fat accumulation, decreasing oxidative stress, and increasing glucose uptake by the tissues. In addition to these effects, Z. officinale also exhibits protective effects against several diabetes-linked complications, notably nephropathy and diabetic cataract, by acting as an antioxidant and antiglycating agent. In conclusion, this work suggests that consumption of Z. officinale can help to treat T2DM and diabetic complications; nevertheless, patient counseling also is required as a guiding force for the success of diet-based therapy in T2DM. 
,   The life cycle of bacterial cells consists of repeated elongation, septum formation, and division. Before septum formation, a division ring called the Z-ring, which is made of a filamentous tubulin analog, FtsZ, is seen at the mid cell. Together with several other proteins, FtsZ is essential for cell division. Visualization of strains with GFP-labeled FtsZ shows that the Z-ring contracts before septum formation and pinches the cell into two equal halves. Thus, the Z-ring has been postulated to act as a force generator, although the magnitude of the contraction force is unknown. In this article, we develop a mathematical model to describe the process of growth and Z-ring contraction in rod-like bacteria. The elasticity and growth of the cell wall is incorporated in the model to predict the contraction speed, the cell shape, and the contraction force. With reasonable parameters, the model shows that a small force from the Z-ring (8 pN in Escherichia coli) is sufficient to accomplish division.
,   The effect of neighboring AT-rich sequences on the right-handed B to left-handed Z transition was investigated in plasmids. The supercoil stabilized Z-DNA structure in (CG) tracts 36 and 40 base pairs (bp) in length revealed an unexpected conformational aberration at defined C residues proximal to one end (colL) when the inserts were bilaterally flanked by an 80% AT-rich segment (90 bp on one side and 331 bp on the other). The presence of the perturbed Z-conformation required (CG) stretches longer than 32 bp and bilateral flanking by the AT-rich tracts, since plasmids with the (CG) tracts unilaterally flanked had an orthodox Z-structure. The thermodynamics of the negative super-coil-induced transitions were influenced only slightly by the neighboring AT-rich regions. Hence, the nature of Z-conformations in plasmids is markedly influenced by intrinsic structural features of the (Pur-Pyr) tract and by seemingly modest changes in the properties of neighboring sequences over a distance of several helical turns.
,   The chiralities of macrolide lactone aggregation pheromones of five species of economically important grain beetles have been determined by capillary gas chromatographic separation of the diastereomeric (S)-O-acetyllactate derivatives of the hydroxy methyl esters derived from boron trifluoride-catalyzed cleavage of the macrolides in methanol. Chirally pure (Z)-3-dodecen-11-olide (I) is produced in theS configuration byCryptolestes ferrugineus (Stephens) and in theR configuration byOryzaephilus mercator (Fauvel). (Z,Z)-3,6-Dodecadien-11-olide (II) is produced in theR configuration by bothO. mercator andO. surinamensis (L.). (Z,Z)-5,8-Tetradecadien-13-olide (IV) is produced in theR configuration byO. surinamensis and as a 85∶15 mixture ofR andS isomers byC. turcicus. (Z)-5-Tetradecen-13-olide (V) is produced in the S configuration byC. pusillus (Schönherr) and as a 33∶67 mixture of theR andS isomers byC. turcicus (Grouvelle). The results indicate that in these cucujids, species specificity in pheromone response is maintained at least in part by pheromone chirality. 
,   This study describes the construction of several useful cloning vectors which can be conjugated from Escherichia coli into Zymomonas mobilis at high frequency, approaching 10 per donor or recipient. These vectors contain a broad-host-range replicon and mob site from RSF1010, a chloramphenicol acyltransferase gene under the control of an enteric consensus promoter, and a second mob site (originally derived from RP4). The addition of this second mob site appears to be responsible for a 2-order-of-magnitude increase in the efficiency of transfer into Z. mobilis. Such vectors may be useful for other gram-negative bacteria in which conjugation efficiencies are low. These vectors are stably maintained in Z. mobilis with no detectable loss of plasmid after 50 generations in the absence of selective pressure. One of these, pLOI193, contains the tetracycline gene from pBR322 and associated cloning sites for insertional inactivation. Another, pLOI204, contains a Z. mobilis promoter immediately upstream from a BamHI site which can be used for cloning. This promoter has been shown to efficiently drive the expression of beta-galactosidase in both Z. mobilis and E. coli. This promoter fragment from Z. mobilis has been sequenced, and the site for transcriptional initiation in E. coli and Z. mobilis has been identified.
,   Capping of the barbed-ends of actin filaments is an important mechanism for control of the cytoskeleton. In platelets, a valuable model system, it has been thought that gelsolin was the major capping protein. We now report that platelets contain approximately 2 microM Cap Z, a calcium insensitive heterodimeric capping protein; two major and additional minor isoforms of both alpha and beta subunits are present. In lysates from resting platelets 75-80% of the Cap Z sediments with the high speed pellet, but if the platelets are activated with thrombin for 10 s, about 15% of the Cap Z leaves the pellet fraction and is found in the high speed supernatant where it is not bound to actin. This translocation of Cap Z to the supernatant is also observed when resting platelets are lysed into buffer containing 50-100 microM GTP gamma S and 10 mM EGTA. Our results suggest that release of Cap Z from some actin filaments could generate free filament barbed-ends. An increase in free barbed-ends has been reported in platelet lysates prepared shortly after thrombin activation.
,   The clinical effect of cis(Z)-clopenthixol has been compared with that of clopenthixol, which is a mixture of the pharmacologically active cis(Z)-isomer and the inactive trans(E)-isomer. In the 2-month double-blind trial were included 57 psychotic patients, mainly schizophrenics. Ratings evaluating severity of illness, therapeutic effect, possible interference of side effects with the patient's functioning, as well as any individual side effects were done at months 0, 1, and 2. The antipsychotic effect of cis(Z)-clopenthixol was found equal to that of clopenthixol whereas the cis(Z)-isomer on a mg/mg basis was twice as active as clopenthixol. Apart from the finding that the unspecific sedative effect appeared to be less marked with cis(Z)-clopenthixol, the type, degree, and frequency of side effects were the same in the two groups of patients. More than half of the patients experienced no side effects.
,   Morphological alterations in idiopathic cardiomyopathy were examined and their clinicopathological significance was discussed. Six cases of congestive type and five of hypertrophic type chosen from 22 patients according to our strict criteria were examined by light and electron microscopy. The diameter values of cardiac muscle fibers were broadly distributed with multiple peaks in congestive cases and with 4 peaks in the hypertrophic cases in contrast to the 2 peaks in controls. The chief electron microscopic alterations consisted of myofibril disorientation and Z band abnormalities. The congestive cases were characterized by decreased and disdarrayed myofibrils (loose myofibril disorientation), wheras the hypertrophic cases by abundant myofibrils characteristically entangled with each other (tight myofibril disorientation). The Z band showed 3 types of abnormalities. Type 1 was characterized by widening, bifurcation and overriding of Z bands while the regular sarcomere was retained. The changes were more conspicuous in the hypertrophic cases than in the congestive cases. Type 2 was represented by clumping of Z band substance, and Type 3 by an interwoven form of electron dense fibers. Types 2 and 3 were seen in some of the hypertrophic and congestive cases. The tight myofibril disorientation and Type 1 of Z band abnormalities were considered important cytopathological clues for the diagnosis of the hypertrophic type of idiopathic cardiomyopathy.
,   The Z-disc of striated muscle is degraded by the Ca2(+)-activated proteinase, calpain, during autolysis of muscle fibres. The effect of calpain on proteins in preparations of Z-discs isolated from Lethocerus flight muscle has been studied. Calpain releases alpha-actinin from the Z-disc and digests two hydrophobic proteins associated with the Z-disc, zeelin 1 (35 kD) and zeelin 2 (23 kD). The Ca2+ sensitivity of zeelin digestion is shifted to lower Ca2+ concentrations (within the physiological range) in the presence of the phospholipids phosphatidyl inositol or phosphatidyl choline and diacylglycerol. The release of alpha-actinin is not affected by phospholipid. Preparations of isolated Z-discs have five times as much associated phospholipid (w/w) as myofibrils and the composition of the lipid differs from that of myofibrils. In muscle fibres the action of calpain on zeelins may be controlled by the composition of phospholipid in the fibres as well as by Ca2+.
,   A series of N isotope tracer experiments showed that Nitrosomonas europaea produces nitrous oxide only under oxygen-limiting conditions and that the labeled N from nitrite, but not nitrate, is incorporated into nitrous oxide, indicating the presence of the "denitrifying enzyme" nitrite reductase. A kinetic analysis of the m/z 44, 45, and 46 nitrous oxide produced by washed cell suspensions of N. europaea when incubated with 4 mM ammonium (99% N) and 0.4 mM nitrite (99% N) was performed. No labeled nitrite was reduced to ammonium. All labeled material added was accounted for as either nitrite or nitrous oxide. The hypothesis that nitrous oxide is produced directly from nitrification was rejected since (i) it does not allow for the large amounts of double-labeled (m/z 46) nitrous oxide observed; (ii) the observed patterns of m/z 44, 45, and 46 nitrous oxide were completely consistent with a kinetic analysis based on denitrification as the sole mechanism of nitrous oxide production but not with a kinetic analysis based on both mechanisms; (iii) the asymptotic ratio of m/z 45 to m/z 46 nitrous oxide was consistent with denitrification kinetics but inconsistent with nitrification kinetics, which predicted no limit to m/z 45 production. It is concluded that N. europaea is a denitrifier which, under conditions of oxygen stress, uses nitrite as a terminal electron acceptor and produces nitrous oxide.
,   A number of recent studies have shown that simple repetitive d(CA/TG) dinucleotide sequences adopt a left-handed non-B-DNA structure under negative superhelical stress. The pattern of chemical reactivities and the helical parameters observed for these sequences differ significantly from those of standard Z-DNA. In this study, the data for two naturally occurring d(CA/TG)n sequences are reevaluated by a statistical mechanics treatment of the B- to Z-DNA transition. The behavior of these sequences under negative superhelical stress is accurately simulated by this model, including the multiple and discrete transitions observed for the rat prolactin promoter. Furthermore, the average helical twist for the left-handed structure of d(CA/TG)n deviates < 2% from that expected for standard Z-DNA. Finally, the predicted distribution of the junctions between B- and Z-DNA are shown to account for differences observed in the patterns of chemical reactivity of d(CA/TG)n and d(CG)n. Thus, no new left-handed structure that differs from Z-DNA is needed to describe the supercoil-induced conformation in d(CA/TG)n sequences.
,   Polycomb group (PcG) genes are required for stable inheritance of epigenetic states throughout development, a phenomenon termed cellular memory. In Drosophila and mice, the product of the E(z) gene, one of the PcG genes, constitutes the ESC-E(Z) complex and specifically methylates histone H3. It has been argued that this methylation sets the stage for appropriate repression of certain genes. Here, we report the isolation of a well-conserved homolog of E(z), olezh2, in medaka. Hypomorphic knock-down of olezh2 resulted in a cyclopia phenotype and markedly perturbed hedgehog signaling, consistent with our previous report on oleed, a medaka esc. We also found cyclopia in embryos treated with trichostatin A, an inhibitor of histone deacetylase, which is a transient component of the ESC-E(Z) complex. The level of tri-methylation at lysine 27 of histone H3 was substantially decreased in both olezh2 and oleed knock-down embryos, and in embryos with hedgehog signaling perturbed by forskolin. We conclude that the ESC-E(Z) complex per se participates in hedgehog signaling.
,   Ischaemia-reperfusion injury causes cell death by both necrosis and apoptosis. Caspase activation is a major event in apoptosis. We therefore examined the effect of caspase inhibitors during reperfusion upon myocardial infarction. Rat isolated hearts were subjected to 35 min coronary occlusion and 120 min reperfusion. Treatment groups were perfused with caspase inhibitors during early reperfusion. We assessed a non-selective caspase inhibitor (Z-VAD. fmk, 0.1 microM), a caspase-8 inhibitor (Z-IETD.fmk, 0.07 microM), a caspase-9 inhibitor (Z-LEHD.fmk, 0.07 microM) and a caspase-3 inhibitor (Ac-DEVD.cmk, 0.07 microM). All caspase inhibitors limited infarct size (infarct-risk ratio per cent: control 38.5+/-2.6; Z-VAD. fmk 24.6+/-3.4; Z-LEHD.fmk 19.3+/-2.4; Z-IETD.fmk 23.0+/-5.4; Ac-DEVD.cmk 27.8+/-3.3; P<0.05 when compared with control value, 1-way ANOVA). We conclude that caspase inhibition during early reperfusion protects myocardium against lethal reperfusion injury.
,   A 38-yr-old man developed the acute onset of expressive aphasia and right hemiparesis during the performance of an advanced aerobatic flight maneuver.netic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated patchy infarction in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery. Magnetic resonance, angiography (MRA) revealed a dissection of the left internal carotid artery. He had flown an aerobatic routine with multiple abrupt transitions from +8 G(z) to -6 G(z) 4 d prior with no ill effects. He had no risk factors for dissection or stroke. The patient recovered full neurological function within several hours.propose that the arterial dissection occurred during the patient's preceding aerobatic flight, leading to an embolic stroke 4 d later. The most likely mechanism was sustained -G(z) acceleration combined with flexion and rotation of his neck during abrupt transition from +G(z) to -G(z), causing stretching of the internal carotid artery at the point of entry to the skull base and development of an intimal tear.
,   The adsorption of a CO2 molecule on neutral and charged X-centered icosahedron Al12X(±z) clusters (X = Al, Be, Zn, Ni, Cu, B, P; z = 0, 1) was investigated by the density functional PW91 and PWC methods. Optimized configurations corresponding to physisorption and chemisorption of CO2 were identified. The adsorption energies, activation barriers, and binding energies involving both the physisorption (Al12X(±z)·CO2-I) and chemisorption (Al12X(±z)·CO2-II) for CO2 were determined. The chemisorption of a CO2 molecule on the Al12X clusters (X is a metallic doping element) requires relatively low activation barriers. The lowest barrier was found to be with the Al12Be cluster. For the Al12X(-) clusters, the barriers are all higher than those of the neutral analogues. For the Al12X(+) clusters, two corresponding configurations are linked by a low-energy barrier, and CO2 molecule chemisorption on the Al12Be(+) cluster has the lowest barrier. The adsorption energies are larger than the energy barriers, which facilitates the chemisorption. The results show that carbon dioxide adsorbed on the Al12X(±z) clusters can be tuned by controllable X doping and the total number of valence electrons and suggest the potential application of Al12X(±z) nanostructures for carbon dioxide capture and activation. 
,   After three stages of preliminary purification, variant Z was chromatographed on a DEAE-cellulose column. Upon elution with a linearly increasing concentration of NaCl, variant Z was recovered in two separate peaks, the first of which contained 81% and the second 19% of the total. The preparation corresponding to the first peak was homogeneous by various criteria. The trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibiting capacities and the specific antigenic activity of the preparation were nearly the same as those of an authentic sample of variant M. Variant Z contained 8 or 9 more gycine residues than variant M, but no appreciable difference was found between their carbohydrate contents. By analytical isoelectrofocusing the isoinhibitors of purified variant Z overlapped with those in the plasma of the donor and were cathodal to, but partially overlapped with purified variant M. After desialysation, the overlap between the different variants became complete, but variant Z contained a larger proportion of cathodal and smaller proportion of anodal components than variant M. Both variants formed five distinct isoinhibitor-protease complexes after incubation with trypsin and chymotrypsin and the corresponding complexes in the different variants completely coincided.
,   Various subunit antigens of varicella-zoster (V-Z) virus were examined for complement-fixing (CF) activity with sera from homotypic infections and from herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections in which a CF antibody titer rise was demonstrated with crude V-Z antigen. The subunit antigens included nucleocapsids, envelopes, a soluble antigen produced from infected culture fluids by sucrose density gradient centrifugation, a soluble antigen produced by reducing the volume of clarified infected culture fluids, a soluble antigen derived from infected cell lysates, a "viral" antigen consisting largely of enveloped particles with a few nucleocapsids, and a cell membrane-associated antigen. None was more suitable than crude V-Z antigen for serodifferentiation of V-Z virus and HSV infections. The envelope antigen, cell membrane antigen, and the soluble antigen prepared by density gradient centrifugation showed little reactivity with sera from varicella and HSV infections, but gave high antibody titers with sera from zoster infections, suggesting that a secondary V-Z virus infection is required to produce an antibody response to these subunit antigens. Patients with varicella and zoster infections and the selected patients with HSV infections all showed significant CF antibody responses to the other V-Z subunit antigens.
,   The inverse normal and Fisher's methods are two common approaches for combining P-values. Whitlock demonstrated that a weighted version of the inverse normal method, or 'weighted Z-test', is superior to Fisher's method for combining P-values for one-sided T-tests. The problem with Fisher's method is that it does not take advantage of weighting and loses power to the weighted Z-test when studies are differently sized. This issue was recently revisited by Chen, who observed that Lancaster's variation of Fisher's method had higher power than the weighted Z-test. Nevertheless, the weighted Z-test has comparable power to Lancaster's method when its weights are set to square roots of sample sizes. Power can be further improved when additional information is available. Although there is no single approach that is the best in every situation, the weighted Z-test enjoys certain properties that make it an appealing choice as a combination method for meta-analysis.
,   Calcium waves in heart cells are mediated by diffusion-coupled calcium-induced calcium release. The waves propagate in circular fashion. This is counterintuitive in view of the accepted ultrastructure of the cardiac myocyte. The density of calcium release sites in the transverse direction is four times higher than in the longitudinal direction. Simulations with release sites localized along Z-lines and isotropic diffusion yielded highly elliptical, nonphysiological waves. We hypothesized that subcellular organelles counteracted the higher release site density along the Z-lines by acting as transverse diffusion barriers and sites of active calcium uptake. We quantified the reduction of transverse diffusion by microinjecting cells with the nonreactive dye fluorescein. The ratio of the radial diffusion coefficient to the longitudinal coefficient was 0.39. Inhibition of mitochondrial uptake by rotenone accelerated the wave in the transverse direction. Simulations with release sites clustered at the Z-lines and a transverse diffusion coefficient 50% of the longitudinal coefficient generated waves of ellipticity 2/1 (major axis along the Z-line). Introducing additional release sites between the Z-lines at a density 20% of that on the Z-lines produced circular waves. The experiments and simulations support the presence of transverse diffusion barriers, additional uptake sites, and possibly intermediate release sites as well.
,   Nikkomycins X and Z, competitive inhibitors of fungal chitin synthase, were evaluated as therapeutic agents in vitro and in mouse models of coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, and blastomycosis. In vitro, the nikkomycins were found to be most effective against the highly chitinous, dimorphic fungi Coccidioides immitis and Blastomyces dermatitidis, were less effective against yeasts, and were virtually without effect on the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. Additionally, by transmission electron microscopy, nikkomycin Z was highly disruptive to the cell wall and internal structure of the spherule-endospore phase of C. immitis in vitro. In vivo, nikkomycin Z was more effective than nikkomycin X, was also found to be superior on a milligram per milligram basis to the majority of azoles tested in the models of coccidioidomycosis and blastomycosis, and was moderately effective in histoplasmosis. A study of the pharmacokinetics in mice showed that nikkomycin Z was rapidly eliminated after intravenous infusion but that absorption after oral administration was sufficiently slow to allow inhibitory levels to persist for more than 2 h. Results of limited toxicology tests suggest that nikkomycin Z was well tolerated at the dosages employed.
,   Droloxifene (DROL) is a new antiestrogen which is used for the treatment of endocrine-responsive breast cancer in humans. As Droloxifene exists in a Z- and E-isomer, we investigated the main pharmacological properties of both isomers. For both compounds the following tests were conducted: affinity for the estrogen receptor (ER); effect on the growth of rat uteri; influence on the growth of the ER + human breast cancer cell line ZR-75; and isomer interconversion in vitro. DROL-(Z) had binding affinity to the cytosolic ER approximately ten times lower than that of DROL-(E). Furthermore, the estrogenic effect of DROL-(Z) in the rat uterus is weak and there is no antiestrogenic activity. The lack of antiestrogenic activity of DROL-(Z) in contrast to DROL-(E) could also be shown in the human breast cancer cells ZR-75. Thus DROL-(Z) is, as far as investigated, without antiestrogenic and estrogenic activities. Of note is the stability of both DROL-isomers. There is no interconversion or metabolism of the parent compounds DROL-(E) and DROL-(Z) in vitro.
,   Drugs prescribed for the treatment of insomnia can be either benzodiazepine hypnotics or the newer z-hypnotics, zopiclone and zolpidem. This paper explores possible explanations for the choice made.a from the Norwegian Prescription Database covering the entire population was studied for incident users of hypnotics. Possible predictors were age, gender, previous psychotropic or analgesic drug use and prescriber speciality.the 73,163 incident users of hypnotics, 3876 were prescribed benzodiazepine hypnotics in 2006. The strongest predictors for being prescribed benzodiazepines were previous use of anxiolytics [odds ratio (OR) 1.8, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.7-2.0] and male gender (OR 1.5, 95% CI 1.4-1.6). Other significant predictors were antipsychotic or opioid drug use and the prescriber being a psychiatrist.ypnotics were commonly prescribed. Norwegian drug therapy recommendations also suggest a preference for z-hypnotics. The clear predominance of the shorter acting z-hypnotics may be due to the fact that only longer acting benzodiazepines are available in Norway. Reasons for prescribing benzodiazepines may be co-morbid psychiatric illness, such as anxiety, or a belief that benzodiazepine hypnotics are more effective than z-hypnotics.
,   In this work, a proof of concept elastin-like polypeptide-Z domain fusion (ELP-Z) based affinity precipitation process is developed for monoclonal antibody (mAb) purification from industrial harvest feeds. Greater than 99% mAb recoveries are obtained during the initial binding step of the process for both pure mAb and the mAb harvest feeds. Great than 90% overall mAb yields are also obtained for the subsequent elution step of the process with no measurable mAb aggregation. The process is shown to result in more than 2 logs of host cell protein (HCP) and more than 4 logs of DNA clearance from the harvest feed. While the overall mAb yield and HCP clearance for the affinity precipitation process was comparable to Protein A chromatography the DNA clearance was clearly superior. Performance is maintained for mAb final elution concentrations up to 20 g/L, demonstrating the ability of the process to both concentrate and purify the mAb. Effective ELP-Z regeneration is also demonstrated using 0.1 M NaOH with no adverse effect on subsequent capture efficiency. Finally, the reusability of the ELP-Z construct and robustness of the process is demonstrated for up to three purification-regeneration cycles with minimal product and impurity carryover and high yields and purity. This work demonstrates that the ELP-Z based precipitation approach can be successfully employed as an affinity capture step for industrial mAbs.
,   Deep second-degree burns are characterized by delayed formation of granulation tissue and impaired angiogenesis. Erythropoietin (EPO) is able to stimulate angiogenesis and mitosis, activating vascularization and cell cycle. The aim of our study was to investigate whether two biosimilar recombinant human erythropoietins, EPO-α and EPO-Z, may promote these processes in an experimental model of burn injury. A total of 84 mice were used and a scald burn was produced on the back after shaving, in 80°C water for 10 seconds. Mice were then randomized to receive EPO-α (400 units/kg/day/sc) or EPO-Z (400 units/kg/day/sc) or their vehicle (100 μL/day/sc 0.9% NaCl solution). After 12 days, both EPO-α and EPO-Z increased VEGF protein expression. EPO-α caused an increased cyclin D1/CDK6 and cyclin E/CDK2 expression compared with vehicle and EPO-Z (p<0.001). Our study showed that EPO-α and EPO-Z accelerated wound closure and angiogenesis; however EPO-α resulted more effectively in achieving complete skin regeneration. Our data suggest that EPO-α and EPO-Z are not biosimilars for the wound healing effects. The higher efficacy of EPO-α might be likely due to its different conformational structure leading to a more efficient cell proliferation and skin remodelling. 
,   The crystal structure of the synthetic protected oligopeptide Z-(Aib)11-OtBu was determined by x-ray crystallography. The undecapeptide folds in a regular 3(10)-helix with nine consecutive 4 --> 1 hydrogen bonds. At present, this is the largest available structure of a homopeptide (including homopeptides consisting of standard amino acids) and also the longest observed regular 3(10)-helix at atomic resolution. Z-(Aib)11-OtBu crystallizes readily from hot ethanol-water mixture and is one of the crystals in which no solvent molecule is co-crystallized. In the crystal head-to-tail hydrogen bonded columns are formed in the [1 0 1] direction. Each helical column is surrounded by six others, whereby two are packed in parallel and four in antiparallel fashion. Helical columns are packed via apolar crystal contacts. The crystal structure of Z-(Aib)11-OtBu is compared with the crystal structures of Z-(Aib)10-OtBu and Z-(Aib)9-OtBu. The similarities and differences are analysed.
,   An analysis of the human chromosome 22 genomic sequence shows that both Z-DNA forming regions (ZDRs) and promoter sites for nuclear factor-I (NFI) are correlated with the locations of known and predicted genes across the chromosome and accumulate around the transcriptional start sites of the known genes. Thus, the occurrence of Z-DNA across human genomic sequences mirrors that of a known eukaryotic transcription factor. In addition, 43 of the 383 fully annotated chromosomal genes have ZDRs within 2 nucleosomes upstream of strong NFIs. This suggests a distinct class of human genes that may potentially be transcriptionally regulated by a mechanism that couples Z-DNA with NFI activation, similar to the mechanism previously elucidated for the human colony stimulation factor-I promoter [Liu et al. (2001) Cell, 106, 309-318]. The results from this study will facilitate the design of experimental studies to test the generality of this mechanism for other genes in the cell.
,   A new class of acyclic (Z)-2-alkyl-1,2-diphenyl-1-(4-methanesulfonylphenyl)ethenes (7) was designed for evaluation as selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors. In vitro COX-1 and COX-2 isozyme inhibition structure-activity studies identified (Z)-1,2-diphenyl-1-(4-methanesulfonylphenyl)oct-1-ene (7d) as a potent COX-2 inhibitor (IC(50) = 0.42 microM) with a high COX-2 selectivity index (SI > 234). In a carrageenan-induced rat paw edema assay, (Z)-7d exhibited excellent antiinflammatory activity (ID(50) = 1.1 mg/kg). The molecular modeling and structure-activity data acquired indicate that (Z)-olefins having cis C-1 4-methanesulfonylphenyl and C-2 unsubstituted phenyl (or 4-acetoxyphenyl) substituents in conjunction with a C-1 phenyl ring and a C-2 alkyl substituent of appropriate length constitute a suitable template for the design of a novel class of acyclic (Z)-2-alkyl-1,1,2-triaryleth-1-ene COX-2 inhibitors.
,   Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have the potential to provide a widely used means of simple and robust kinship testing. Suitable measures of polymorphism informativity are therefore required in order to guide the search for the most efficient combinations of SNPs. In the context of kinship testing, such measures should preferably be related to Z, the power of excluding false paternity in trios comprising mother, child and alleged father. Since the bulk of SNPs is expected to be biallelic, a Z-related measure of informativity can be defined for SNPs in a particularly elegant manner: allele frequency vectors of sets of n biallelic SNPs that give rise to the same Z value approximate to an n-dimensional sphere around (1/2,...,1/2). Owing to this relationship, it can be shown that the number N of maximally informative SNPs (i.e., of SNPs with allele frequencies 1/2), providing the same Z value as a given set of n SNPs, approximates to 2n times the average gene diversity of the latter. Linear regression analysis of a large number of simulated SNP sets reveals that only a minor linear correction of Nis required for large n. Since Z= 1-(13/16)N, Ncan also be calculated easily for multiallelic markers with known Z. The "equivalent number of maximally informative SNPs", N, is therefore suggested as a measure of marker informativity in the context of kinship testing.
,   The mutant Z form of alpha1-antitrypsin (alpha1AT) is responsible for > 95% of all individuals with alpha1AT deficiency, an important inherited cause of emphysema and liver disease. Since secreted Z alpha1AT is a functional antiprotease, we hypothesized that interrupting catabolism of retained Z alpha1AT might increase its transport out of cells, causing an increase in extracellular protease protection. Both the protein translation inhibitor cycloheximide and the specific inhibitor of proteasome function, lactacystin, prevented intracellular degradation of Z alpha1AT. Moreover, this inhibition of degradation was associated with partial restoration of Z alpha1AT vesicular transport. This effect was observed in a model system of transfected CHO cells as well as in human alveolar macrophages synthesizing Z alpha1AT. This study supports the hypothesis that altering the intracellular fate of a mutant protein may be an option in the treatment of diseases associated with misfolded but potentially functional proteins.
,   Extracts of resting and germinating (3 days at 20 degrees C) wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv Ruso) grains rapidly hydrolyzed various benzyloxycarbonyldipeptides (Z-dipeptides) at pH 4 to 6. Similar activities were present in extracts of mature flag leaves. Fractionation by chromatography on CM-cellulose and on Sephadex G-200 showed that the activities in germinating grains were due to five acid carboxypeptidases with different and complementary substrate specificities. The wheat enzymes appeared to correspond to the five acid carboxypeptidases present in germinating barley (L Mikola 1983 Biochim Biophys Acta 747: 241-252). The enzymes were designated wheat carboxypeptidases I to V and their best or most characteristic substrates and approximate molecular weights were: I, Z-Phe-Ala, 120,000; II, Z-Ala-Arg, 120,000; III, Z-Ala-Phe, 40,000; IV, Z-Pro-Ala, 165,000; and V, Z-Pro-Ala, 150,000. Resting grains contained carboxypeptidase II as a series of three isoenzymes and low activities of carboxypeptidases IV and V. During germination the activity of carboxypeptidase II decreased, those of carboxypeptidases IV and V increased, and high activities of carboxypeptidases I and III appeared. The flag leaves contained high activity of carboxypeptidase I and lower activities of carboxypeptidases II, IV, and V, whereas carboxypeptidase III was absent.
,   A series of quaternary lanthanide halide cluster compounds ALa(6)I(12)Z with transition metal interstitials (principally Os) and alkali or alkaline-earth metal cations (A = Na, Mg, Ca, Sr) have been synthesized by high temperature solid state techniques. The compounds were structurally characterized by single crystal and powder X-ray diffraction methods. The new compounds are isotypic (R3, Z = 3) with rhombohedral R(7)X(12)Z (R = Sc, Y, La-Lu; X = Cl, Br, I; Z = transition or main group element) and contain nominally octahedral R(6)X(12) units centered by interstitial Z. Here, the cation (A) rather than the seventh R occupies the isolated position between clusters along c as A(x)R(1-x) with 0 < x <or= 1. The balance of the structure remains essentially unchanged. The refined X-ray crystal structures of NaLa(6)I(12)Os, (Ca(0.906)La(0.094))La(6)I(12)Os, (Ca(0.621)La(0.379))La(6)I(12)Os, SrLa(6)I(12)Os, and (Sr(0.526)La(0.474))La(6)I(12)Os are reported, along with results of electrical resistivity and magnetic susceptibility measurements on these and some analogous phases. The phases are generally semiconductors, but the complex paramagnetic properties are not those of simple spin-only systems.
,   Carboxylic acids, esters, secondary amides, and related molecules share a thermodynamic preference for the Z arrangement of their X[double bond, length as m-dash]C-Y-R moiety. This conformational predisposition is known as the Z effect and its most common explanation invokes the hyperconjugation from a Y lone pair to the σCX* orbital. In this work, we present clear topological evidence that hyperconjugation is not responsible for the Z preference. Diverse tools defined within the quantum chemical topology framework (such as, for example, atomic and electron localization function populations or the interacting quantum atoms energy decomposition) were used to analyse the evolution of formic acid from the E conformer towards the Z conformation. The results highlight the important role of the π resonance in the barrier between conformers and they also indicate that the hyperconjugative interaction lacks a leading role. Concretely, in an X[double bond, length as m-dash]C-Y-R structure, the XR interaction seems to be the key to understanding the preference for the Z arrangement of the moiety. Interestingly, our proposed explanation can be extended to a wide range of molecules presenting the same conformational preference, such as proteins or peptide nucleic acids. 
,   We performed a meta-analysis of published literature comparing the complications after open and laparoscopic elective sigmoidectomy for diverticular disease.ctronic databases were searched from January 1991 to March 2009. A systematic review was performed to obtain a summative outcome.eteen comparative studies involving 2,383 patients were analyzed. There were 1,014 patients in the laparoscopic group and 1,369 patients in the open group. There was no significant heterogeneity among any of the complications analyzed. Patients in the laparoscopic sigmoid resection group had fewer wound infections (fixed effects model: risk ratio [RR], .54; 95% confidence interval [CI], .36-.80; z, -3.05; P < .01; random effects model: RR, .59; 95% CI, .39-.89; z, -2.54; P < .05), blood transfusions (fixed effects model: RR, .25; 95% CI, .10-.60; z, -3.10; P < .01; random effects model: RR, .28; 95% CI, .11-.68; z, -2.81; P < .01), and ileus rates (fixed effects model: RR, .37; 95% CI, .20-.66; z, -3.34; P = .001; random effects model: RR, .37; 95% CI, .20-.68; z, -3.21; P = .001) compared with open sigmoid resections. No difference was seen for medical complications, need for rehospitalization, and reoperation.aroscopic sigmoid resection is safe and has fewer postoperative surgical complications. This approach should be considered for elective cases, however, more randomized controlled trials are required to strengthen the evidence.
,   Most existing reports indicate that body weight gradually increases following marital status and thereby enhances health status and decreases mortality; however, the association between marital status and the metabolic syndrome (MetS) has not been thoroughly investigated in a longitudinal study. aim of this study was to investigate the potential effects of marital status and marital transition on MetS during a 9.6-year follow-up in Tehran Lipid and Glucose Study. this study, 5221 participants (2060 males and 3161 females), aged 15 to 90 years at baseline, were followed for a median of 9.6 years. Marital status was categorized as consistent marital status and marital transition. We measured MetS risk z score and its components and calculated their changes. Then the effects of marital status and marital transition on MetS risk z score and its components were assessed using multivariable linear regression.comparison to participants who were married, no significant changes in MetS risk z score was found in single participants. Employed females in the transition to married group had significant increase in MetS risk z score than single employed females. No significant changes in MetS risk z score were observed between widowed/divorced subjects and compared to consistently married subjects.ital status may affect MetS risk z score differently in both genders.
,   We present exact solutions for the zero-temperature partition function of the q-state Potts antiferromagnet (equivalently, the chromatic polynomial P) on tube sections of the simple cubic lattice of fixed transverse size Lx x L(y) and arbitrarily great length L(z), for sizes Lx x L(y)=2 x 3 and 2 x 4 and boundary conditions (a) (FBC(x),FBC(y),FBC(z)) and (b) (PBC(x),FBC(y),FBC(z)), where FBC (PBC) denote free (periodic) boundary conditions. In the limit of infinite length, L(z)-->infinity, we calculate the resultant ground-state degeneracy per site W (=exponent of the ground-state entropy). Generalizing q from Z+ to C, we determine the analytic structure of W and the related singular locus Beta which is the continuous accumulation set of zeros of the chromatic polynomial. For the L(z)-->infinity limit of a given family of lattice sections, W is analytic for real q down to a value q(c). We determine the values of q(c) for the lattice sections considered and address the question of the value of q(c) for a d-dimensional Cartesian lattice. Analogous results are presented for a tube of arbitrarily great length whose transverse cross section is formed from the complete bipartite graph K(m,m).
,   The spatial organization of the Z-ring, the central element of the bacterial division machinery, is not yet fully understood. Using optical tweezers and subpixel image analysis, we have recently shown that the radial width of the Z-ring in unconstricted Escherichia coli is about 100 nm. The relatively large width is consistent with the observations of others. Moreover, simulation of the experimental FtsZ distribution using the theoretical three-dimensional (3D) point spread function was strongly in favour of a toroidal rather than a thin cylindrical model of the Z-ring. Here, we show that the low density of FtsZ filaments in the ring coincides within experimental uncertainty with the critical density of a 3D random network of cylindrical sticks. This suggests that the Z-ring may consist of a percolating network of FtsZ filaments. Several factors that are expected to affect the polymerization state and the extent of self-interaction of FtsZ within the Z-ring, as well as the functional implications of its sparse toroidal structure, are discussed in terms of percolation theory. 
,   The optimum conditions for the formation of E- and Z-ajoene from garlic juice mixed with soybean oil were determined using response surface methodology. A central composite design was used to investigate the effects of three independent variables temperature (°C, X 1), reaction time (hours, X 2), and oil volume (multiplied by weight, X 3). The dependent variables were Z-ajoene (Y 1) and E-ajoene (Y 2) in oil-macerated garlic. The optimal conditions for E- and Z-ajoene using ridge analysis were 98.80°C, 6.87 h, and weight multiplied by weight 2.57, and 42.24°C, 9.71 h, and weight multiplied by weight 3.08, respectively. These conditions resulted in E- and Z-ajoene compound predicted values of 234.17 and 752.62 μg/g from garlic juice, respectively. The experimental values of E- and Z-ajoene were 222.75 and 833.59 μg/g, respectively. The estimated maximum values at the predicted optimum conditions were in good agreement with experimental values. 
,   Nineteen carotenoids were identified in extracts of petals of orange- and yellow-flowered cultivars of calendula (Calendula officinalis L.). Ten carotenoids were unique to orange-flowered cultivars. The UV-vis absorption maxima of these ten carotenoids were at longer wavelengths than that of flavoxanthin, the main carotenoid of calendula petals, and it is clear that these carotenoids are responsible for the orange color of the petals. Six carotenoids had a cis structure at C-5 (C-5'), and it is conceivable that these (5Z)-carotenoids are enzymatically isomerized at C-5 in a pathway that diverges from the main carotenoid biosynthesis pathway. Among them, (5Z,9Z)-lycopene (1), (5Z,9Z,5'Z,9'Z)-lycopene (3), (5'Z)-gamma-carotene (4), and (5'Z,9'Z)-rubixanthin (5) has never before been identified. Additionally, (5Z,9Z,5'Z)-lycopene (2) has been reported only as a synthesized compound.
,   Gamma1- and gamma2-zeathionins (gamma1-Z and gamma2-Z) are members of a family of small and basic peptides involved in plant protection. These plant defensins exhibit remarkable structural similarity to scorpion neurotoxins and insect defensins. In the present report, we used the whole-cell patch clamp technique to investigate the inhibition of the sodium current (I(Na)) by gamma1-Z and gamma2-Z in the GH3 cell line. Both gamma1-Z and gamma2-Z rapidly and reversibly inhibited I(Na) without changing the kinetics or voltage dependence of activation or inactivation. To our knowledge, this is the first example of a plant protein that inhibits the sodium channel. From structural comparisons with the mu-conotoxins, a family of peptides that block the sodium channel, we detected some similar features that could provide the basis of inhibition of sodium channels by gamma-zeathionins.
,   The synthesized benzimidazoles compounds were prepared from the condensation reaction between o-Phenylenediamine and various carbonyl compounds, in the presence of ammonium chloride as a catalyst. Ammonium chloride is a commercial and environmentally benign catalyst. The yield of all benzimidazole derivatives was found to be in the range of 75 - 94%. The purity of the compounds was ascertained by melting point and TLC. The synthesized compounds were characterized by using IR,(1)H NMR, and MASS spectral data together with elemental analysis. The synthesized benzimidazole compounds were screened for acute and chronic anti-anxiety activity in Wistar rats by using an elevated plus maze model with standard Diazepam. The synthesized compounds Z(B), Z(E), Z(F), Z(G), and Z(H) showed potent anti-anxiety activity when compared to the standard Diazepam. The compound Z(H) exhibited a higher anti-anxiety activity when compared to other prepared benzimidazoles. The results were subjected to statistical analysis by using one-way ANOVA followed by the Tukey-Kramer test, to calculate the significance.
,   Effects of A:T base pairs on the propensity of B to Z conformational transitions have been investigated by the CD salt titrations on d(CG)5' d(GC)5' terminal or central A:T replaced decamers, and terminal A:T appended dodecamers. The presence of A:T at the center greatly inhibits the B to Z transition of both G:C decamers. Moderate Z inhibitions are shown by terminal A:T replacements and additions to d(CG)5' with the former exhibiting a stronger effect. In contrast, the addition and replacement with A:T at the terminals of d(GC)5 facilitate the B to Z conversion, with the replacement exhibiting a somewhat more pronounced effect. These results may be rationalized in terms of the number of contigous CG sequences present in an oligomer and the relative inhibitory effects of other dinucleotide sequences. Our results also suggest that some short oligomers with purine at the 5'-end, such as d[A(CG)nT] with n greater than or equal to 2, may likely crystallize as Z conformations.
,   Linkage data using the markers F9, DXS105 (cX55.7), DXS98 (4D-8) and DXS52 (St14) are presented from 22 kindreds segregating with the fragile X. Two-point linkage analysis was carried out taking into account cytogenetic results and penetrance classes defined by mental impairment status of mothers. Recombination frequencies (theta) corresponding to the maximum z scores (z) were obtained between F9 (z = 3.48, theta = 0.18), DXS105 (z = 5.06, theta = 0.07), DXS98 (z = 4.79, theta = 0.01) and DXS52 (z = 6.44, theta = 0.09) and the fragile X. Recombination frequencies between marker loci in fragile X families are also presented. These recombination frequencies need to be combined with those from other studies in order to determine the best estimates of map distances for use in genetic counselling, until markers closer to the fragile X, or at the fragile X, can be used. Most potential fra(X) heterozygotes were informative for flanking markers using the above 4 probes. Carrier risks were determined by 3-point analysis using informative flanking markers, taking into account cytogenetic results. Low level fra(X) expression occurred in 2 probable non-carriers; emphasising the need for extreme caution in the interpretation of low rates of expression.
,   An electron probe X-ray microanalysis (EPMA) technique, using an energy-dispersive X-ray detector with an ultrathin window, designated a low-Z particle EPMA, has been developed. The low-Z particle EPMA allows the quantitative determination of concentrations of low-Z elements, such as C, N, and O, as well as chemical elements that can be analyzed by conventional energy-dispersive EPMA, in individual particles. Since a data set is usually composed of data for several thousands of particles in order to make environmentally meaningful observations of real atmospheric aerosol samples, the development of a method that fully extracts chemical information contained in the low-Z particle EPMA data is important. An expert system that can rapidly and reliably perform chemical speciation from the low-Z particle EPMA data is presented. This expert system tries to mimic the logic used by experts and is implemented by applying macroprogramming available in MS Excel software. Its feasibility is confirmed by applying the expert system to data for various types of standard particles and a real atmospheric aerosol sample. By applying the expert system, the time necessary for chemical speciation becomes shortened very much and detailed information on particle data can be saved and extracted later if more information is needed for further analysis.
,   Arenaviruses include Lassa fever virus (LFV) and the South American hemorrhagic fever viruses. These viruses cause severe human disease, and they pose a threat as agents of bioterrorism. Arenaviruses are enveloped viruses with a bisegmented negative-strand RNA genome whose proteomic capability is limited to four polypeptides: nucleoprotein (NP); surface glycoprotein (GP), which is proteolytically processed into GP1 and GP2; polymerase (L); and a small (11-kDa) RING finger protein (Z). Our investigators have previously shown that Z has a strong inhibitory activity on RNA synthesis mediated by the polymerase of the prototypic arenavirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). In this report we show that cells transduced with a replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus expressing Z (rAd-Z) are resistant to LCMV and LFV infection. Virus cell entry mediated by LCMV or LFV GP was not affected in rAd-Z-transduced cells, but both virus transcription and replication were strongly and specifically inhibited, which resulted in a dramatic reduction in production of infectious virus. These findings open new avenues for developing antiviral strategies to combat the highly pathogenic human arenaviruses, including LFV.
,   This study aimed to determine the influence of an object's z-axis location and location on the axial plane on the voxel values in cone beam computed tomography. CTP401 and CTP486 of the Catphan 500 phantom were scanned with an Alphard-3030 at 6 locations in the z-axis.CTP401, the voxel values of 3 inserts showed the lowest values when the center of the radiation field corresponded to under 2 or 4 cm of the z-axis center of CTP401. In CTP486, the voxel values showed the lowest values when the center of the radiation field corresponded to under 2 or 4 cm of the z-axis center of CTP486. On the same axial plane, the voxel values at the center showed significantly lower values than the off-center locations (P = .002). voxel values in the Alphard-3030 changed based on the z-axis location of the radiation field and were nonuniform on the same axial plane.
,   We describe a diagnostic ion that enables rapid semiquantitative evaluation of the degree of oxygen contamination in the collision gases used in tandem mass spectrometers. Upon collision-induced dissociation (CID), the m/z 359 positive ion generated from the analgesic etoricoxib undergoes a facile loss of a methyl sulfone radical [(•)SO(2)(CH(3)); 79-Da] to produce a distonic radical cation of m/z 280. The product-ion spectrum of this m/z 280 ion, recorded under low-energy activation on tandem-in-space QqQ or QqTof mass spectrometers using nitrogen from a generator as the collision gas, or tandem-in-time ion-trap (LCQ, LTQ) mass spectrometers using purified helium as the buffer gas, showed two unexpected peaks at m/z 312 and 295. This enigmatic m/z 312 ion, which bears a mass-to-charge ratio higher than that of the precursor ion, represented an addition of molecular oxygen (O(2)) to the precursor ion. The exceptional affinity of the m/z 280 radical cation towards oxygen was deployed to develop a method to determine the oxygen content in collision gases.
,   Sweet ways: We have investigated the glycosyltransferase genes of the saquayamycin Z (shown) and galtamycin B biosynthetic gene cluster from Micromonospora sp. Tü6368. The results unambiguously show that both compounds are derived from the same cluster. Furthermore, the function of five glycosyltransferases was elucidated, and the results have shed light on the assembly of the sugar chains.The Gram-positive bacterium, Micromonospora sp. Tü6368 produces the angucyclic antibiotic saquayamycin Z and the tetracenequinone galtamycin B. The structural similarity of both compounds suggests a common biosynthetic pathway. The entire biosynthetic gene cluster (saq gene cluster) was cloned and characterized. DNA sequence analysis of a 36.7 kb region revealed the presence of 31 genes that are probably involved in saquayamycin Z and galtamycin B formation. Heterologous expression experiments and targeted gene inactivations were carried out to specifically manipulate the saquayamycin Z and galtamycin B pathways; this demonstrated unambiguously that both compounds are derived from the same cluster. The inactivation of glycosyltransferase genes led to the production of novel saquayamycin and galtamycin derivatives, provided information on the assembly of the sugar chains, and showed that tetracenequinones are formed from angucyclines.
,   [M-H](-) anions from small diphosphopeptides (phosphate groups on Ser, Thr or Tyr) show characteristic peaks corresponding to m/z 177 (H(3)P(2)O(7) (-)), 159 (HP(2)O(6) (-)) and sometimes [(M-H)(-)-H(4)P(2)O(7)](-). M/z 177 and m/z 159 are major peaks in the spectra of small peptides with 1,2, 1,3, 1,4, 1,5 and 1,6 diphosphate substitution, which means that the decomposing [M-H](-) anions must have flexible structures in order for the two phosphate groups to interact with each other. Peptides where the two phosphate groups are more than six amino acid residues apart have not been studied. Theoretical calculations indicate that m/z 177 is formed in a strongly exothermic reaction involving facile nucleophilic interaction between the two phosphate groups: m/z 159 is formed by loss of water from energised m/z 177.
,   Pheromones serve key functions in the biology of swarming locusts. However, research has focused largely on the mass-swarming desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria. We extended these investigations to the pheromonal profile of the rarely swarming American bird grasshopper, S. americana (Drury). The headspace of mature gregarious S. americana males contained three characteristic electroantennogram-active components: (Z)-3-nonen-1-ol, (Z)-2-octen-1-ol, and nonanal. These substances were accompanied by aromatics such as phenol that are also released by females and immatures. Male-specific pheromone components were released independently from epidermal gland cells, with the highest emission rate being for (Z)-3-nonen-1-ol from the abdomen and legs. The emission of the major compound, (Z)-3-nonen-1-ol, is stress-sensitive, and coincides with sexual maturity and crowding. The emission pattern strongly supports a role of (Z)-3-nonen-1-ol in the reproductive biology of S. americana. The pheromone is involved in courtship-inhibition and is used as mate assessment pheromone in cryptic female choice. In double mating experiments, females choose sperm of males with high (Z)-3-nonen-1-ol emission. Furthermore the pheromone accelerated maturation of immature adults and supports synchronization of sexual development.
,   Hydroxy and oxo fatty acids were recently found to be produced as intermediates during gut microbial fatty acid metabolism. Lactobacillus plantarum produces these fatty acids from unsaturated fatty acids such as linoleic acid. In this study, we investigated the effects of these gut microbial fatty acid metabolites on the lipogenesis in liver cells. We screened their effect on sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) expression in HepG2 cells treated with a synthetic liver X receptor α (LXRα) agonist (T0901317). The results showed that 10-hydroxy-12(Z)-octadecenoic acid (18:1) (HYA), 10-hydroxy-6(Z),12(Z)-octadecadienoic acid (18:2) (γHYA), 10-oxo-12(Z)-18:1 (KetoA), and 10-oxo-6(Z),12(Z)-18:2 (γKetoA) significantly decreased SREBP-1c mRNA expression induced by T0901317. These fatty acids also downregulated the mRNA expression of lipogenic genes by suppressing LXRα activity and inhibiting SREBP-1 maturation. Oral administration of KetoA, which effectively reduced triacylglycerol accumulation and acetyl-CoA carboxylase 2 (ACC2) expression in HepG2 cells, for 2 weeks significantly decreased Srebp-1c, Scd-1, and Acc2 expression in the liver of mice fed a high-sucrose diet. Our findings suggest that the hypolipidemic effect of the fatty acid metabolites produced by L. plantarum can be exploited in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases or dyslipidemia. 
,   Longitudinal evidence of relationships between unhealthy diets and BMI in children is crucial for appropriately targeting obesity prevention activities. The objective was to determine the relationship between frequency of consumption of sugar sweetened beverages (SSBs) and high fat foods (HFFs) and body weight in Australian children aged from 4 to 10 years.a from 4,164 children participating in four waves (wave 1, 2004; wave 2, 2006; wave 3, 2008; and wave 4, 2010) of the Longitudinal Study of Australian Children were analyzed. A multi-level growth model tested relationships between consumption of SSB and HFF and BMI z-scores. z-scores were associated with daily consumption of HFF, SSB and maternal BMI independent of BMI z-scores at wave 1 (baseline); with each additional occurrence of SSB and HFF consumption intake per day, BMI z-score increased by 0.015 U (P < 0.01) and 0.014 U (P < 0.001), respectively. With each additional maternal BMI unit, BMI z-score increased by 0.032 (P < 0.001).her BMI z-scores were strongly associated with the consumption of SSBs and HFFs. Future efforts to prevent obesity should consider urgent action to address the impact of the consumption of SSBs and HFFs in childhood.
,   The reactions of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) and (dG-dC)10 insert in the plasmid pGC20 with N-methyl-bis(2-chloroethyl)-amine (nitrogen mustard, HN-2) have been studied. It is shown that nitrogen mustard does not induce the B----Z transition in poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC), but produces fixation of the polynucleotide Z-conformation once this exists. In the case of pGC20 plasmid DNA, nitrogen mustard also fixes Z-form of the (dG-dC)-insert. The rate constant of the reaction of nitrogen mustard with guanine in the polynucleotide (k = 9,0.10(-3) min-1) is about one-third of that for the fixation of Z-form of the (dG-dC)-insert in the plasmid (k1 = 2,8.10(-2) min-1) which is attributed to a greater rate of formation of diguanyl derivative in the opposite DNA chains. It is suggested that nitrogen mustard is capable of fixing the Z-form DNA not only in vitro, but also in vivo.
,   Three thiosulfinates were isolated from oil-macerated garlic extract, and their structures were identified as 2-propene-1-sulfinothioic acid S-(Z,E)-1-propenyl ester [AllS(O)SPn-(Z,E)], 2-propenesulfinothioic acid S-methyl ester [AllS(O)SMe], and methanesulfinothioic acid S-(Z,E)-1-propenyl ester [MeS(O)SPn-(Z,E)]. This is the first report of isolating these thiosulfinates from oil-macerated garlic extract. Antimicrobial activities of AllS(O)SPn-(Z,E) and AllS(O)SMe against Gram-positive and negative bacteria and yeasts were compared with 2-propene-1-sulfinothioic acid S-2-propenyl ester [AllS(O)SAll, allicin] which is well-known as the major thiosulfinate in garlic. Antimicrobial activity of AllS(O)SMe and AllS(O)SPn-(Z,E) were comparable and inferior to that of allicin, respectively. This result suggested that the antimicrobial activity of 2-propene sulfinothioic acid S-alk(en)yl esters were affected by alk(en)yl groups. The order for antimicrobial activity was: allyl > or = methyl > propenyl.
,   The natural products pterosin Z, acetylpterosin Z, originally from the fern Pteridium aquilinum, and their isopterosin analogues have been synthesized and their smooth muscle relaxation activity has been measured. All of the test compounds show activity with pterosin Z being the most active (EC50 = 1.3 +/- 0.1 x 10(-6) M), exhibiting 100 times the activity reported for the related fern metabolites onitin (EC50 = 1 x 10(-4) M), onotisin (EC50 = 2 x 10(-3) M) and otninoside (EC50 = 7 x 10(-4) M). The smooth muscle relaxant activity of pterosin Z is approximately equipotent with that of the related fungal pterosin (EC50 of 2.9 +/- 1.6 x 10(-6) M). These results suggest that smooth muscle relaxant activity is reduced when a phenol group is present in the pterosin nucleus and when one of the dimethyl groups is derivatized.
,   The striated muscle Z-line, a multiprotein complex at the boundary between sarcomeres, plays an integral role in maintaining striated muscle structure and function. Multiple Z-line-associated proteins have been identified and shown to play an increasingly important role in the pathogenesis of human cardiomyopathy. Cypher and its close homologue, Enigma homolog protein (ENH), are 2 Z-line proteins previously shown to be individually essential for maintenance of postnatal cardiac function and stability of the Z-line during muscle contraction, but dispensable for cardiac myofibrillogenesis and development. current studies were designed to test whether Cypher and ENH play redundant roles during embryonic development. Here, we demonstrated that mice lacking both ENH and Cypher exhibited embryonic lethality and growth retardation. Lethality in double knockout embryos was associated with cardiac dilation and abnormal Z-line structure. In addition, when ENH was ablated in conjunction with selective ablation of either Cypher short isoforms (CypherS), or Cypher long isoforms (CypherL), only the latter resulted in embryonic lethality.her and ENH redundantly play an essential role in sustaining Z-line structure from the earliest stages of cardiac function, and are redundantly required to maintain normal embryonic heart function and embryonic viability.
,   SMAD4 immunohistochemistry is considered a valuable prognostic marker in colorectal cancer, but individual studies have often been small and the results variable. A meta-analysis could potentially clarify these findings.September 2014, a Pubmed and Google Scholar search was conducted to find publications that reported the prognostic value of SMAD4 expression. A meta-analysis was performed to clarify the association between SMAD4 expression and survival outcomes. studies were found, of which 13 were considered eligible. The studies consisted of a total of 3800 patients. Three different endpoints were taken into account, namely, overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), and cancer-specific survival (CSS). In addition, the studies were divided into univariate and multivariate analyses. The pooled hazard ratios were given as follows: univariate CSS = 1.75 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.93-3.32; z= 1.69; P= .09]; multivariate CSS = 2.17 (95% CI: 1.56-3.01; z= 4.65; P= .000); univariate DFS = 2.11 (95% CI: 1.36-3.28; z= 3.32; P= .001); multivariate DFS = 2.15 (95% CI: 1.56-3.01; z= 4.65; P= .000); univariate OS and DFS = 2.30 (95% CI: 1.41-3.73; z= 3.36; P= .001); univariate OS = 2.28 (95% CI: 1.30-4.00; z= 2.89; P= .004). results of the presented meta-analyses indicate that SMAD4 expression status using immunohistochemistry is a prognostic marker for patient survival.
,   (Z)-1-(2-Bromo-1,2-diphenylethenyl)-4-ethylbenzene, C22H19Br, Mr = 363.3, triclinic, P1, a = 8.0838 (8), b = 9.4510 (8), c = 11.565 (1) A, alpha = 91.464 (8), beta = 89.563 (9), gamma = 90.828 (8) degrees, V = 883.2 (2) A3, Z = 2, Dx = 1.366 Mg m-3, lambda(Cu K alpha) = 1.5418 A, mu = 3.13 mm-1, F(000) = 372, T = 294 (1) K, R = 0.031 for 2764 independent reflections. All the bond distances and angles are normal. To avoid steric hindrance, the three phenyl rings are twisted out of the plane calculated for the two atoms involved in the ethylenic bond and the four atoms linked to them. The dihedral angles of their least-squares planes with that of the ethylene group are in the range 47.77 (7)-57.86 (7) degrees. The cohesion of the structure is due to van der Waals interactions. A mixture of the (Z)- and (E)-isomers (Broparestrol, INN) is used in dermatology. The (Z)-isomer exhibits some aspects of the antiestrogenic activity and other actions that may be connected to the estrogenic properties. Therefore information on the (Z)-isomer geometry was required to understand the structure-activity relationship.
,   Cellular lipoxygenases have been implicated in foam cell formation during the early stages of atherogenesis. We studied the interaction of lipoxygenases of different positional specificities with human lipoproteins and found that the arachidonate 15-lipoxygenases of rabbit and humans and the arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase of porcine leukocytes oxygenate lipoproteins as indicated by the formation of oxygenated lipids and changes in electrophoretic mobility of low density lipoprotein. The arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase of human platelets, the recombinant arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase of human leukocyte, and the soybean lipoxygenase I were less effective in oxidizing human LDL. As a major oxygenation product, esterified 13S-hydro(pero)xy-9Z,11E-octadecadienoic acid was identified for both the rabbit reticulocyte 15- and the porcine leukocyte 12-lipoxygenase. In addition, esterified 15S-hydro(pero)xy-5,8,11,13(Z,Z,Z,E)-eicosatetraenoic acid (for the rabbit 15-lipoxygenase) and 12S-hydro(pero)xy-5,8,10,14(Z,Z,E,Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid (for the porcine 12-lipoxygenase) as well as small amounts of racemic 9-hydro(pero)xy-10,12-octadecadienoic acid isomers were detected. More than 90% of the oxygenated polyenoic fatty acids were found in the ester lipid fraction, particularly in the cholesteryl esters and in various phospholipid classes (phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine). The possible biological significance of lipoxygenase-induced oxidative modification of lipoproteins in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis is discussed.
,   We identified sex chromosomes of the double-wattled cassowary (Casuarius casuarius) by a replication banding method. The acrocentric Z chromosome, the fifth largest pair in males and slightly smaller W chromosome show no sign of heterochromatinization and share a nearly identical banding pattern in the distal half of the long arm. These chromosomes were further characterized by FISH with three probes linked either to Z or W chromosome in most avian species examined thus far. Contrary to the situation in the chicken, we obtained positive signals with Z-specific ZOV3 and W-specific EEO.6 in the distal region of both Z and W chromosomes. However, IREBP signals localized to the proximal half of the Z chromosome were not detected on the W chromosome. Thus, structural rearrangements such as deletions and inversions might have been the initial step of W chromosome differentiation from an ancestral homomorphic pair in this species.
,   This study addresses the factors influencing decisions to send medicine-surgical (med-surg) patients home or to nursing facilities (NFs). The sample (n = 7,852) was taken from a large, urban, teaching, med-surg unit where discharges were documented and data collected over a two-and-a-half-year period. Using logistical regression, the factors found to most influence the decision were age (z = 26.99, p = .000; odds = 1.06); patients diagnosed with "musculoskeletal system" problems (z = 11.07, p = .000; odds = 5.36); and needing skilled professional care (z = -15.03, p = .000; odds = .21) or nonprofessional personal care (z = 6.62,p = .000; odds = 2.32). Having less effect, but important information for discharge planners, was being an African American (z = 3.82, p = .000; odds = .76) or Latino (z = -3.96, p = .000; odds = .54). A review of the literature found limited knowledge of the factors that influence hospital patients, family members, and professionals, including social workers, to make the decision to recommend home care or NF care.
,   In this meta-analysis, we aim to evaluate gender differences of lower extremity amputation risk in patients with diabetic foot. Systematic computerized searches of PubMed and Web of Knowledge were performed. The pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for amputation risk were calculated. Twenty studies with 15 385 case (present amputation) and 438 760 control (absent amputation) patients were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled crude OR was 1.676 (95% CI 1.307-2.149; Z = 4.07, P = .000). In the retrospective study subgroup, the pooled OR was 1.708 (95% CI = 1.235-2.363; Z = 3.24, P = .001); in the prospective study subgroup, the pooled OR was 1.478 (95% CI = 1.189-1.838; Z = 3.51, P = .000). The pooled adjusted OR was 1.439 (95% CI = 1.238-1.671; Z = 4.76, P = .000). In retrospective study subgroup, the pooled OR was 1.440 (95% CI = 1.208-1.717; Z = 4.07, P = .000); in prospective study subgroup, the pooled OR was 1.478 (95% CI = 1.080-2.024; Z = 2.44, P = .015). No significant publication bias was found. Sensitivity analyses by omitting a heterogeneity study showed the results were robust. In conclusion, our meta-analysis indicates that men with diabetic foot have about one half increased amputation risk than women with diabetic foot. Men with diabetes should receive more complete follow-up and more adequate health education. 
,   Efficient syntheses of (Z,E)-5,7-dodecadienol, a pheromone component of the Siberian moth, Dendrolimus superans sibiricus, and (E,Z)-10,12-hexadecadienol, a pheromone component of various Lepidoptera pheromones, were accomplished by cis reduction of the corresponding enynols with activated zinc. The most energetic reagent was zinc galvanized with copper and silver (Zn/Cu/Ag) that achieved rapid and high-yield reduction in methanol-water. The stereoselectivity of semi-hydrogenation was > or =98%. A process whereby zinc dust was continuously activated throughout the reduction with an acid was also satisfactory (95-98% cis). Field evaluation of the 1:1 mixture of (Z,E)-5,7-dodecadienol and (Z,E)-5,7-dodecadienal with the Siberian moth in Russia showed that the rubber septa pretreated with compound and stored at -80 degrees C were as effective as freshly treated septa. Moth responses to septa aged in open air indicated that lure effectiveness declined significantly after 2 weeks of aging. Thus, if rubber septa are used as pheromone dispensers in Siberian moth traps monitoring, they should be replaced biweekly with fresh septa for optimal trap effectiveness.
,   Three grasses (Poaceae) of different C(4) subtypes, Paspalum dilatatum (NADP-malic enzyme [ME]), Cynodon dactylon (NAD-ME) and Zoysia japonica (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase), occur in natural habitats that differ in annual rainfall. Their leaf characteristics were studied to identify traits related to drought tolerance. Plants were grown in pots, and water deficit was gradually induced by withholding water. Leaves of Z. japonica had the greatest and P. dilatatum the lowest relative dry matter content. Transverse sections of leaves that developed during the water deficit showed little change compared to control leaves, consistent with low phenotypic plasticity. Anatomical features distinguished the three species, with xeromorphic characteristics most strongly represented in Z. japonica. The leaf relative water content (RWC) decreased with the soil water content similarly for the three grasses. However, at 80% RWC, the leaf water potential was -3.1 MPa for Z. japonica and only -1.3 MPa for P. dilatatum and C. dactylon. Soluble amino acids, especially proline, increased as RWC decreased in leaves of C. dactylon and Z. japonica. Phenylalanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine increased more in Z. japonica than in the other two species. The results provide evidence that C. dactylon and, especially, Z. japonica have evolved leaf traits better suited to arid habitats.
,   Stressful environments may enhance the occurrence of facilitative interspecific interactions between plants. In several regions, Zostera marina occurs in mixed assemblages. However, the potential effects of plant diversity on stress responses and stability properties of Z. marina are poorly understood. We investigated the resistance and recovery of Z. marina subjected to shading (1 mo) in a field experiment lasting 2.5 mo. We shaded Z. marina planted in mono- and polycultures (Potamogeton perfoliatus, P. pectinatus, P. filiformis) in a factorial design (Shading×Richness) at 2 m depth. We estimated the resistance and recovery of Z. marina by measuring four response variables. Polyculture Z. marina lost proportionally less biomass than monocultures, thus having a greater resistance to shading. In contrast, after a 1 mo recovery period, monocultures exhibited higher biomass gain, and a faster recovery than polycultures. Our results suggest that plant species richness enhances the resistance of Z. marina through facilitative mechanisms, while the faster recovery in monocultures is possibly due to interspecific competition. Our results highlight the need of a much better understanding of the effects of interspecific interactions on ecosystem processes in mixed seagrass meadows, and the preservation of diverse plant assemblages to maintain ecosystem functioning.
,   Resorcinolic lipids were isolated from the root extracts of Sorghum bicolor and identified as 4,6-dimethoxy-2-[(8'Z,11'Z)-8',11',14'-pentadecatriene]resorcinol (4), 4-methoxy-6-ethoxy-2-[(8'Z,11'Z)-8',11',14'-pentadecatriene]resorcinol (5), and 4-hydroxy-6-ethoxy-2-[(10'Z,13'Z)-10',13',16'-heptadecatriene]resorcinol (6). Compounds 4 and 5 inhibited photosynthetic oxygen evolution (IC50 0.09 and 0.20 microM, respectively). Compound 4 could not be enzymatically converted to a quinone, suggesting that the quinone moiety is not required for its photosystem II inhibitory activity. Compounds 5 and 6 are reported for the first time.
,   Ribonuclease (RNase) Z is involved in the maturation of the 3' ends of transfer RNAs (tRNAs) in all three kingdoms of life. To prevent futile cycles of CCA addition and removal, eukaryotic RNase Z discriminates against mature tRNAs bearing a CCA motif, with the first cytosine residue (C74) being the key antideterminant. Here, we show that, remarkably, the B. subtilis enzyme does not discriminate against cytosine in position 74, but rather is highly stimulated by uracil in this location. Consistent with this observation, the vast majority of B. subtilis tRNA precursor substrates of RNase Z naturally contain U74. Those tRNA precursors with a uracil further downstream are also substrates for RNase Z, but are matured in a two-step endo/exonuclease reaction. We solved the first crystal structure of B. subtilis RNase Z bound to a tRNA(Thr) precursor with U74 and show that the enzyme has a specific binding pocket for this nucleotide.
,   The histologic presence of intestinal metaplasia in the esophagus is a prerequisite for the diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus. Thus, use of the term Barrett's esophagus to describe certain endoscopic features in the distal esophagus is inappropriate. There is no accepted classification system for the endoscopic description of the squamocolumnar mucosal junction, the so-called "Z-line." Furthermore, no clear definition of the normal Z-line exists. A classification of the Z-line appearance has been proposed: the ZAP classification. The aim of this study was to assess the reproducibility of this classification. physicians with varying endoscopy experience were presented with 15 endoscopic photographs of the Z-line and were asked to classify them according to the ZAP classification. A second assessment was conducted between 7 and 15 weeks after the first. median kappa values were in the range of 0.72 to 0.90 with regard to intraobserver as well as interobserver reproducibility, irrespective of experience with upper endoscopy. intraobserver and interobserver reproducibility of the ZAP classification is substantial and thus it is feasible to use this classification to characterize the appearance of the Z-line at endoscopy.
,   To investigate the occurrence of UV sunscreening biomolecules and their role in photoprotection in cyanobacterial biofilms growing in brightly lit habitats with high UV fluxes.h performance liquid chromatography with photodiode-array and mass spectrometry revealed the presence of mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs) shinorine (λmax 334 nm, m/z 333), porphyra-334 (λmax 334 nm, m/z 347), mycosporine-glycine (λmax 310 nm, m/z 246) and palythinol (λmax 332 nm, m/z 303). Two unknown MAAs with λmax at 320 (m/z 289) and 329 nm (m/z 318) were also found. Biosynthesis of MAAs was found to increase with increase in exposure time under UV radiation. The MAAs from biofilms showed efficient radical scavenging activity as well as photoprotective potential on the survival of UV-treated Escherichia coli cells.synthesis of photoprotectants is an important mechanism to prevent photodamage in Cyanobacteria. UV-induction and photoprotective function of MAAs may facilitate them to perform important ecological functions under harsh environmental conditions.re are very few reports on qualitative and quantitative characterization of different MAAs in cyanobacterial biofilms. Due to strong UV absorption and photoprotective function, MAAs may be used as an active ingredient in cosmetic and other pharmaceutical industries.
,   Determination of the binding positions of light metal ions in the structure of oligonucleotides remains a challenge owing to their irregular coordination geometries, low electron densities and mobility in the crystals. To study the interactions between monovalent cations and DNA, the heavier alkali metal ion Rb(+) was used to replace Na(+) and K(+) in the Z-DNA crystal and the structure was analyzed using X-ray cryocrystallography. The resolution of the Rb-d(CGCGCG)(2) crystal data set is 1.76 A, with an R(merge) of 0.061. The final residual factor (R factor) for the crystal structure is 0.175. The positions of 16 Rb(+) ions were tentatively assigned, with most of them having partial occupancies. Three rubidium ions with full occupancies coordinated to two DNA double strands were located in the Z-DNA crystal. The results of this work suggest that there are numerous relatively low-energy sites for binding of monovalent cations to Z-DNA and that these sites are cation-water hybrid positions.
,   Let ρ be a Sinai-Ruelle-Bowen (SRB or 'physical') measure for the discrete time evolution given by a map f, and let ρ(A) denote the expectation value of a smooth function A. If f depends on a parameter, the derivative δρ(A) of ρ(A) with respect to the parameter is formally given by the value of the so-called susceptibility function Ψ(z) at z=1. When f is a uniformly hyperbolic diffeomorphism, it has been proved that the power series Ψ(z) has a radius of convergence r(Ψ)>1, and that δρ(A)=Ψ(1), but it is known that r(Ψ)<1 in some other cases. One reason why f may fail to be uniformly hyperbolic is if there are tangencies between the stable and unstable manifolds for (f,ρ). The present paper gives a crude, non-rigorous, analysis of this situation in terms of the Hausdorff dimension d of ρ in the stable direction. We find that the tangencies produce singularities of Ψ(z) for |z|<1 if d<1/2, but only for |z|>1 if d>1/2. In particular, if d>1/2, we may hope that Ψ(1) makes sense, and the derivative δρ(A)=Ψ(1) thus has a chance to be defined.
,   Steric effect for the XeF* (B, C) formations in the oriented Xe* ((3)P(2), M(J) = 2) + oriented NF(3) reaction has been observed as a function of the mutual configuration between the molecular orientation and the atomic orientation in the collision frame. Molecular steric opacity function has been determined as a function of the atomic orbital alignment (L(Z)') in the collision frame. The larger reactivity at the side with the smaller reactivity at the molecular axis direction is observed for the XeF* (B, C) channels at each atomic orbital alignment. A good correlation between the shape of the molecular steric opacity function and the molecular geometry of NF(3) is recognized. The L(Z)' selectivity in the molecular steric opacity function is different between the XeF* (B, C) channels; in the sideways direction, the XeF* (B) channel is favorable at L(Z)' = 0, while the XeF* (C) channel is favorable at |L(Z)'| = 1. In contrast, at the molecular axis direction, the XeF* (B) channel is favorable at |L(Z)'| = 1, while the XeF* (C) channel is favorable at L(Z)' = 0. We propose the collision-induced harpoon mechanism for the XeF* (B, C) formation in the Xe* ((3)P(2)) + NF(3) reaction.
,   Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in worldwide and required for novel therapeutic strategy. Our previous research demonstrated that the crude acetone extract of Bupleurum scorzonerifolium (BS-AE) and its component isochaihulactone induce antiproliferative and apoptotic effects on the lung adenocarcinoma cell line. Structural analysis has identified isochaihulactone as a lignan, with a chiral center and two racemic forms (Z-isochaihulactone and E-isochaihulactone). In this study, Z-isochaihulactone displayed significantly higher tumor cytotoxicity than E-isochaihulactone in A549 cells. The notch signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in determination of cell fate during development, while in lung cancer, it might have oncogenic or tumor-suppressive controversial functions. We showed that Z-isochaihulactone induced morphological changes in the A549 cells, inhibited cell growth, and arrested the cell cycle at the G2/M phase. It also induced upregulation of the active form of Notch1 (notch intracellular domain, NICD), which further induced p21 and c-Myc expression in time- and dose-dependent manners. Administrations of Z-isochaihulactone in nude mice can significantly inhibit tumor growth due to enhancement of NICD expression confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis. Taken together, our results supported that Z-isochaihulactone can efficiently inhibit tumorigenicity and be a potential compound for therapy.
,   A formula by J. L. King gives the equilibrium mutation load as L = 2 sigma ui(1 - qi)/z - x) in which ui is the mutation rate to deleterious alleles at the ith locus, qi is the frequency of mutant alleles at this locus, x is the mean number of such mutant genes per individual before selection, z is the mean number in individuals eliminated by selection, and the summation is over all relevant loci. We show that this rule is inaccurate for intense selection and that a correct formula is L = 2 sigma ui(1 - qi) w/(z - x) = 2U w/(z - x) = 2U/(z - x + 2U) in which U is the mean number of new mutations per haploid genome in the population and w is the mean relative fitness before selection. If w/(z - x) less than 1/2, the mutation load is less than the Haldane value (U less than or equal to L less than or equal to 2U) and can be considerably less. In a diploid asexual population, however, with independent occurrence of mutations, L = 1 - e-2U regardless of the mode of selection.
,   Differential scanning calorimetry, temperature-dependent absorbance, and circular dichroic spectroscopy were used to study the thermodynamics of the B-Z transition in poly(m5dG-dC). In sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 50 mM NaCl and 1.0 mM MgCl2, the reversible B-Z transition of the polymer is centered at 38.2 degrees C and is characterized by delta Hcal = 0.61 +/- 0.07 kcal/(mol X base pair) (1 cal = 4.184 J), delta HvH = 68 +/- 7 kcal/mol, and a cooperative unit of length 110 +/- 20 base pairs. A second transition centered at 53.6 degrees C is observed and represents a conformational change of poly(m5dG-dC) from the Z to an alternate left-handed form of unknown structure. This transition does not arise from aggregation to the Z form, or from the helix-coil transition. The left-handed helix-coil transition is observed at 120.9 +/- 0.3 degrees C and is characterized by delta Hcal = 9.1 +/- 1.0 kcal/(mol X base pair). These results indicate a substantial enthalpic contribution to the B-Z transition, in contrast to previous assertions that the process is entropically driven.
,   Pyroglutamyl-peptidase (L-pyroglutamyl-peptide hydrolase, EC 3.4.19.3) from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens was covalently labeled with a newly synthesized N-carbobenzoxy-L-pyroglutamyl diazomethyl ketone (Z-PGDK) and was completely inactivated. The inactivation reaction proceeded in pseudo-first order. The kinetic studies demonstrated a rate-limiting step in the inhibition reaction, resulting in the formation of a reversible (enzyme.reagent) complex. The calculated KI,app is 0.12 mM at pH 7.58. The rate of inactivation was pH dependent with an extrapolated pK value of approx. 8.6. The enzyme could be protected against inactivation by a poor substrate, pyroglutamyl-valine. The PCMB-inactivated enzyme, that could be reversibly reactivated by mercaptoethanol, failed to react with Z-PGDK. The enzyme was insensitive toward the D-isomer of Z-PGDK and other diazomethyl ketone derivatives of carbobenzoxy amino acids such as Z-L-proline and Z-L-phenylalanine. These results strongly suggest that the Z-PGDK reacts as an affinity label, presumably with a cysteine residue as the site of alkylation in pyroglutamyl-peptidase, as was reported for chloromethyl ketone derivatives of pyroglutamic acid and its N-carbobenzoxy derivative.
,   N-Nitrosomethyl-N-n-pentylamine was separated into its E and Z isomers by HPLC. When the metabolism was examined using microsomes isolated from uninduced Fischer 344 rats, it was found that, at a constant final concentration of 0.5 mM, the yield of formaldehyde produced increased as the proportion of the Z isomer rose. The yield of valeraldehyde, on the other hand, decreased with an increasing proportion of the Z isomer. Kinetic constants were determined for the metabolism of the two isomers. During the metabolism of the Z isomer, the Vmax was 2.2-fold higher for the formation of formaldehyde than that for the E. The Vmax for valeraldehyde was 2.0-fold lower during the metabolism of the Z isomer. The results indicate that the relative position of the nitroso group can have a profound effect on the metabolism of each side of this type of molecule.
,   Hexammine cobalt(III) chloride (Co(NH3)6(3+) provokes a B-DNA----Z-DNA----psi-DNA conformational transition in poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) and poly(dG-m5dC).poly(dG-m5dC). The circular dichroism spectrum of psi-DNA is characterized by a manyfold increase of positive ellipticity in the range of 300-225 nm and the complete absence of a negative peak. In order to ascertain the helical handedness of psi-DNA, we used a recently developed enzyme immunoassay technique. This method consisted of treating the polynucleotides with Co(NH3)6(3+) to convert them to the Z- or psi-DNA forms and immobilizing these conformations on a microtiter plate. The plates were subsequently treated with a monoclonal anti-Z-DNA antibody Z22, alkaline phosphatase conjugated, affinity purified immunoglobulins, and the phosphatase substrate. The enzyme-substrate reaction was monitored by reading the absorbance at 405 nm with a microplate autoreader. The monoclonal anti-Z-DNA antibody had no reactivity to the B-DNA form, but bound strongly to both the Z- and psi-DNA forms, showing that Co(NH3)6(3+)-induced psi-DNA form of the polynucleotides exists in the left-handed Z-DNA conformation.
,   Z-Ligustilide, a major phthalide isolated from a widely used traditional Chinese medicine Ligusticum chuanxiong, possesses various pharmacological activities including neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative and vasorelaxing effects. However, it is unstable and inclined to degrade in natural conditions, which limits its study and application greatly. In this study, degradation behavior of Z-ligustilide and its degradation products stored at room temperature under direct sunlight were investigated and structure elucidated by HPLC-UV, UPLC-QTOF-MS and NMR. Z-ligustilide degradation and total five degradation products were generated and detected. Two degradation products were unequivocally identified as senkyunolide I and senkyunolide H by comparison with reference compounds. Another two degradation products were further isolated by semi-preparative HPLC and structure elucidated as (E)-6, 7-trans-dihydroxyligustilide and (Z)-6, 7-epoxyligustilide by 1H and 13C NMR, respectively. The degradation pathways of Z-ligustilide were finally proposed. Oxidation, hydrolysis and isomerization are the major degradation reactions.
,   Surface alkanes and fatty acids from the thalli of the lichen Xanthoria parietina, its photobiont Trebouxia sp., and its mycobiont were analysed by GC-MS. The green alga Trebouxia sp. synthesized mainly unsaturated fatty acids such as (Z,Z,Z)-9,12,15-18 : 3 (Z,Z)-9,12-18 : 2 and (Z)-9-18 : 1, and light alkanes C8-C15 (up to 83% of total n-alkanes). However, the mycobiont contained mainly saturated fatty acids such as hexadecanoic (16 : 0) and octadecanoic acid (18 : 0), and also very long-chain n-alkanes C22-C34. Dehydroabietic acid was found in both lichen and mycobiont. The occurrence of different amounts of n-alkanes and fatty acids in the photobionts and mycobionts of X. parietina was shown for the first time. Lichens collected from different locations in the Jerusalem hills contained n-alkanes ranging in concentration from 187 to 211 mg x (g dry wt)-1; n-alkane concentrations in the photobiont and mycobiont were 17-24 and 215-262 mg x (g dry wt)-1, respectively.
,   The crystal structures of the four E,Z,E isomers of 1-(4-alkoxyphenyl)-6-(4-nitrophenyl)hexa-1,3,5-triene, namely (E,Z,E)-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-6-(4-nitrophenyl)hexa-1,3,5-triene, C(19)H(17)NO(3), (E,Z,E)-1-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-6-(4-nitrophenyl)hexa-1,3,5-triene, C(20)H(19)NO(3), (E,Z,E)-1-(4-nitrophenyl)-6-(4-n-propoxyphenyl)hexa-1,3,5-triene, C(21)H(21)NO(3), and (E,Z,E)-1-(4-n-butoxyphenyl)-6-(4-nitrophenyl)hexa-1,3,5-triene, C(22)H(23)NO(3), have been determined. Intermolecular N...O dipole interactions between the nitro groups are observed for the methoxy derivative, while for the ethoxy derivative, two adjacent molecules are linked at both ends through N...O dipole-dipole interactions between the N atom of the nitro group and the O atom of the ethoxy group to form a supramolecular ring-like structure. In the crystal structures of the n-propoxy and n-butoxy derivatives, the shortest intermolecular distances are those between the two O atoms of the alkoxy groups. Thus, the nearest two molecules form an S-shaped supramolecular dimer in these crystal structures.
,   Poly(L-lactic acid-co-L-lysine(Z)) with different Lys(Z) contents was synthesized by Sn(II) salt-catalyzed ring-opening copolymerization of 3(S)-benzyloxycarbonylaminobutyl-6(S)-methylmorpholine-2,5-dione with lactide. Microcapsules of the copolymers were prepared by solvent evaporation from w/o/w emulsion, and FITC-dextran release from the microcapsules was investigated. The FITC-dextran release was dependent on the composition and molecular weight of the copolymers. The release from the microcapsules containing Lys(Z) of 6.5 mol% was slowest among the present microcapsules, which is due to smooth surface and very small microcapsules included in a large microcapsule. On the other hand, the release from microcapsules containing Lys(Z) of 31 or 50 mol% became faster after several days of incubation. GPC measurement of the microcapsules revealed that the copolymers were degraded during the incubation. Cracks and pores were formed on the microcapsule wall. PLLA microcapsules having comparable molecular weight to the copolymers showed neither release acceleration nor degradation in short-time incubation. Therefore, the introduction of Lys(Z) units made PLLA susceptible to degradation to result in delayed acceleration of release.
,   The aim of this study was to establish growth-related standard values and z-values for tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) for Japanese children.examined 953 consecutive healthy children and adolescents, ranging from newborn to 22.7 years of age (mean age, 4.4 ± 4.0 years). TAPSE was measured as the longitudinal tricuspid valve annular motion from the apex on M-mode echocardiography. The right ventricular (RV) stroke volume (RVSV) divided by the body surface area (RVSV/BSA) was used as an independent indicator of body size. RVSV was determined from the recordings of the ejection blood flow velocity and the diameter at the level of the pulmonary orifice in the RV outflow tract.SE had positive correlations with age and BSA, ranging from 6.0 to 31.4 mm (mean, 19.1 ± 4.4 mm). The z-values ranged from -3.63 to 3.17. There was no significant difference in TAPSE between the genders (male, 19.0 ± 4.6 mm; female, 19.1 ± 4.2 mm). The z-values positively correlated with RVSV/BSA.wth-related normal TAPSE was studied in healthy Japanese children to obtain the TAPSE z-value. TAPSE z-value is one of the parameters that can be used to assess RV systolic function independent of body size.
,   The gas-phase conformational preferences of the model dipeptides Z-Glu-OH and Z-Arg-OH have been studied in the low-temperature environment of a supersonic jet. IR-UV ion-dip spectra obtained using the free electron laser FELIX provide conformation-specific IR spectra, which in combination with density functional theory (DFT) allow us to determine the conformational structures of the peptides. Molecular dynamics modeling using simulated annealing generates a variety of low-energy structures, for which geometry optimization and frequency calculations are then performed using the B3LYP functional with the 6-311+G(d,p) basis set. By comparing experimental and theoretical IR spectra, three conformations for Z-Glu-OH and two for Z-Arg-OH have been identified. For three of the five structures, the dispersion interaction provides an important contribution to the stabilization, emphasizing the importance of these forces in small peptides. Therefore, dispersion-corrected DFT functionals (M05-2X and B97D) have also been employed in our theoretical analysis. Second-order Møller-Plesset perturbation theory (MP2) has been used as benchmark for the relative energies of the different conformational structures. Finally, we address the ongoing debate on the gas-phase structure of arginine by elucidating whether isolated arginine is canonical, tautomeric, or zwitterionic.
,   The sarcomeric Z-disc defines the lateral borders of the sarcomere and has primarily been seen as a structure important for mechanical stability. This view has changed dramatically within the last one or two decades. A multitude of novel Z-disc proteins and their interacting partners have been identified, which has led to the identification of additional functions and which have now been assigned to this structure. This includes its importance for intracellular signalling, for mechanosensation and mechanotransduction in particular, an emerging importance for protein turnover and autophagy, as well as its molecular links to the t-tubular system and the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Moreover, the discovery of mutations in a wide variety of Z-disc proteins, which lead to perturbations of several of the above-mentioned systems, gives rise to a diverse group of diseases which can be termed Z-discopathies. This paper provides a brief overview of these novel aspects as well as points to future research directions.
,   An affinity column for isolating Z-DNA binding proteins was made by attaching brominated poly(dG-dC) to Sephadex. Proteins from Drosophila nuclei were prepared and those that could bind to Escherichia coli B-DNA were removed from the solution. The remaining proteins were passed over the Z-DNA affinity column and then eluted with NaCl. Using both direct and competitive filter binding assays, we found that the eluted proteins bind to brominated poly(dG-dC) (Z-DNA) and poly(dG-m5dC) but not to poly(dG-dC) (B-DNA), native or denatured E. coli or calf thymus DNA, or brominated oligonucleotides. The proteins also bind to negatively supercoiled plasmids carrying Z-DNA sequences but not to relaxed or linearized plasmids in which the Z-DNA conformation is no longer present. Gel analysis reveals a mixture of several large proteins up to approximately 150,000 daltons.
,   The purpose of this study was to compare the compressive strengths and compressive fatigue limits of three posterior composite resins (Filtek P-60, Surefil and Prodigy Condensable) and a universal restorative composite (Z-100). Cylindrical specimens (8 mm in length x 4 mm in diameter) were used. The dynamic test was performed using the staircase method, and the ratio between compressive fatigue limit and compressive resistance was also calculated (n = 15). The compressive strength and compressive fatigue limit data were analyzed by Anova and Tukeys test. The Z-100 composite demonstrated higher compression strength (307.20 MPa) than Surefil (266.93 MPa) and Prodigy Condensable (222.08 MPa). The resistance of Filtek P-60 (270.44 MPa) was similar to the resistances of Z-100 and Surefil, while Prodigy Condensable presented the lowest compressive strength. In the compressive fatigue limit tests, Filtek P-60 demonstrated a higher value (184.20 MPa) than Prodigy Condensable (155.50 MPa). Surefil (165.74 MPa) and Z-100 (161.22 MPa) presented limits similar to those of Filtek P-60 and Prodigy Condensable. The compressive fatigue limit/compressive strength ratio was 70.01% for Prodigy Condensable, 68.11% for Filtek P-60, 62.09% for Surefil and 52.48% for Z-100. It was concluded that the Z-100 universal composite was more sensitive to the dynamic test than the high viscosity materials.
,   The deoxyribose hexanucleoside pentaphosphate (m5dC-dG)3 has been studied by 500 MHz 1H NMR in D2O (0.1 M NaCl) and in D2O/deuterated methanol mixtures. Two conformations, in slow equilibrium on the NMR time scale, were detected in methanolic solution. Two-dimensional nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) experiments were used to assign the base and many of the sugar resonances as well as to determine structural features for both conformations. The results were consistent with the an equilibrium in solution between B-DNA and Z-DNA. The majority of the molecules have a B-DNA structure in low-salt D2O and a Z-DNA structure at high methanol concentrations. A cross-strand NOE between methyl groups on adjacent cytosines is observed for Z-DNA but not B-DNA. The B-DNA conformation predominates at low methanol concentrations and is stabilized by increasing temperature, while the Z-DNA conformation predominates at high methanol concentrations and low temperatures. 31P NMR spectra gave results consistent with those obtained by 1H NMR. Comparison of the 31P spectra with those obtained on poly(dG-m5dC) allow assignment of the lower field resonances to GpC in the Z conformation.
,   This study was designed to develop and validate a computerized exercise intervention program using the transtheoretical model (TTM) for Korean patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). This computerized program was web-based and developed by designing a flow chart. An expert group (n=24), who validated the content of the computerized program, produced a mean score for the evaluation scale of 4.25 (SD.56). Of the patients (n=28) with type 2 DM who participated in clinical validity testing of the program, the mean score for the satisfaction scale was 4.82 (SD.12). In the validation of the program, significant differences between baseline and after-intervention were observed in the stage of readiness for exercise (Z=-3.78, p < 0.001), physical activity (Z=-2.33, p < 0.05), blood glucose profiles [FBS (Z=-2.84, p < 0.01), pc 2 hr. glucose (Z=-2.33, p < 0.05), HbA1c (Z=-2.77, p < 0.01)], and VO2max (Z=-2.52, p < 0.01). The study confirmed that the computerized program could be used to construct a database and continue to provide follow-up intervention for patients in all stages.
,   The carbonyl stretching frequencies in the infrared spectra of 38 fac-tricarbonyl octahedral complexes of manganese(I) prepared in this laboratory were determined. These complexes may be grouped into three types: (a) neutral complexes of the structure (CO)(3)Mn(P-P)Z where P-P represents depe, dppe, or dppp, and Z represents various anionic functional groups bonded to the manganese; (b) ionic complexes of the structure [(CO)(3)Mn(P-P)Z](+)BF(4)(-) where Z represents various neutral molecules possessing one phosphorous, nitrogen, or oxygen atom coordinated to the manganese; (c) complexes of the structure (CO)(3)Mn(pn)Z where the chelating pn represents 1,1-diphenylphosphino-2,2-dimethylaminoethane, Ph(2)PCH(2)CH(2)NMe(2). All of these complexes show three carbonyl stretching modes (2A' + A"). The effects on the frequencies of these modes induced by both the various Z groups and the various ligands are discussed. Theoretical calculations (B3LYP/6-31G) with optimization of the full molecule make it possible to distinguish between the three stretching modes and to make unambiguous assignments of appropriate symmetry species to each.
,   Gas chromatography, using a highly polar column, low energy (30 eV) electron ionization mass spectrometry and multivariate curve resolution, are combined to obtain the mass spectra of all eight geometrical isomers of α-linolenic acid. A step by step Student's t-test is performed on the m/z 50-294 to identify the m/z by which the geometries of the double bonds could be discriminated. The most intense peak discriminates between cis (m/z 79) and trans (m/z 95) at the central (carbon 12) position. The configuration at carbon 15 is then distinguished by m/z 68 and 236, and finally the geometry at carbon 9 is determined by m/z 93, 173, 191 and 236. A three-question binary tree is developed based on the normalized intensities of these ions by which the identity of any given isomer of α-linolenic is accurately determined. Application of Bayes theorem to data from independent samples shows that the complete configuration is determined correctly with a minimum probability of 87%.
,   During autopsy of a 38-year-old man the forensic pathologist noted an atypical purple discoloration of the colon membrane. Hypothesis was that the discoloration could have been caused by ingestion of red beetroot. In order to exclude other toxicological causes for this finding and to analytically verify this hypothesis, colon membrane, blood and urine were screened not only for the typical forensically relevant substances but also for the main chromophoric beetroot compounds employing liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS). Betanin (m/z 551.1495) and its aglycone betanidin (m/z 389.0973) were found in the extracts of colon membrane and urine. Betanin was detected in whole blood, and urinary analysis additionally revealed two metabolites: betanidin glucuronide (m/z 565.1294) and betanidin sulfate (m/z 469.0541) - showing the same fragmentation pattern as betanidin after the characteristic neutral loss of m/z 176.0315 and m/z 79.9554 for glucuronic acid and sulfate, respectively. This is the first time that betacyanins could be analytically confirmed as cause for a purple discoloration of the colon. Urine analysis further revealed that besides betanin itself betanidin phase II metabolites could be detected in human urine. 
,   The Pearson r-from-Z approximation estimates the sample correlation (as an effect size measure) from the ratio of two quantities: the standard normal deviate equivalent (Z-score) corresponding to a one-tailed p-value divided by the square root of the total (pooled) sample size. The formula has utility in meta-analytic work when reports of research contain minimal statistical information. Although simple to implement, the accuracy of the Pearson r-from-Z approximation has not been empirically evaluated. To address this omission, we performed a series of Monte Carlo simulations. Results indicated that in some cases the formula did accurately estimate the sample correlation. However, when sample size was very small (N = 10) and effect sizes were small to small-moderate (ds of 0.1 and 0.3), the Pearson r-from-Z approximation was very inaccurate. Detailed figures that provide guidance as to when the Pearson r-from-Z formula will likely yield valid inferences are presented.
,   Many strains of Bombyx mori carry chromosomal aberrations, and they are useful resources for integration between phenotypes and genomic sequences. We compared the molecular structures of three kinds of Z chromosomes, i.e., two strains with chromosome deletions and one strain with translocation involving the Z chromosome. Using polymerase chain reaction markers, we showed that: (1) the Z(1) chromosome lacks more than 6Mb, including the proximal end; (2) the Z(Vg) chromosome lacks 1.5Mb in the interstitial portion; and (3) the +(od)p(Sa)+(p)W carries a 0.6-Mb Z-derived fragment surrounding the +(od) gene. The breakpoint junctions of these deletions and a translocation were precisely determined. Through deletion mapping, we narrowed down the regions where distinct oily (od), vestigial (Vg), and muscle dystrophy (Md) are located and identified a candidate gene for od. A retroposon-mediated deletion in BmBLOS2--the Bombyx gene homologous to human "biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1, subunit 2''--was detected in the od mutant. Although the genes responsible for Vg and Md were not definitively identified, we propose the candidate genes on the basis of their locations and phenotypes.
,   We experimentally investigated field-induced aggregation of nonmagnetic particles confined in a magnetic fluid layer when rotating magnetic fields were applied. After application of a magnetic field rotating in the plane of the fluid layer, the single particles start to form two-dimensional clusters, like dimers, trimers, and more complex structures. These clusters aggregated again and again to form bigger clusters. During this nonequilibrium process, a broad range of cluster sizes was formed, and the scaling exponents z and z;{'} of the number of clusters N(t) approximately t;{-z;{'}} and average cluster size S(t) approximately t;{z} were calculated. The process could be characterized as diffusion-limited cluster-cluster aggregation. We found that all sizes of clusters that occurred during an experiment fall on a single curve, as the dynamic scaling theory predicts. However, the characteristic scaling exponents z;{'},z and crossover exponents Delta were not universal. A particle tracking method was used to find the dependence of the diffusion coefficients D_{s} on cluster size s . The cluster motions show features of Brownian motion. The average diffusion coefficients D_{s} depend on the cluster size s as a power law D_{s} proportional, variants;{gamma} where values of gamma as different as gamma=-0.62+/-0.19 and gamma=-2.08+/-0.51 were found in two of the experiments.
,   As previously shown for imatinib, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of vemurafenib should be important to measure efficacy of the treatment in melanoma patient. A micro-method based on liquid chromatography coupled to triple quadrupole spectrometry detection using only 10μL of plasma was validated. A simple protein precipitation with water/acetonitrile was used after addition of vemurafenib-(13)C6 as internal standard. The ion transitions used to monitor analytes were m/z 490.2→m/z 255.2 and m/z 383.3 for vemurafenib and m/z 496.2→m/z 261.2 and m/z 389.3 for vemurafenib-(13)C6. Calibration curves were linear in the 0.1-100μg/mL range, the limits of detection and quantification being 0.01μg/mL and 0.1μg/mL, respectively. The intra- and inter-assay precisions evaluated at 0.1, 0.3, 15, 45 and 80μg/mL were lower than 13.3% and the accuracies were in the 93.7-105.8 range. No matrix effect was observed. At steady state, the results of TDM of vemurafenib in 26 patients treated by 960mg twice daily (n=60 samples), 13 patients with 740mg twice daily (n=13) and one with 1200mg twice daily (n=3) showed a great variability of the pharmacokinetics of this compound. 
,   The primary sex pheromone of the yellowheaded spruce sawfly,Pikonema alaskensis (Rohwer) (Hymenoptera: Tenthredinidae), was found to include a series of straight-chain hydrocarbon dienes, all with the double bonds in the 9 and 19 positions and all with the (Z, Z) configuration. The major components, of 29, 31, 33, 35, and 37 carbon atoms, were synthesized. In the field and the greenhouse, the synthetic dienes were far above control levels in activity but, at least during the first hours of bioassay, were somewhat less active than the female-derived materials on a weight basis. In the field, a mixture of all five synthetic dienes, in the proportions found in the females, was more attractive than any single one, on a mole basis. In addition, (Z, Z)-9,19 dienes of 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, and 39 carbons have been detected in females in minor amounts. The first five were bioassayed, and each was found to be similar in activity to the 35-carbon component when compared on a weight basis. The synthetic dienes, while active by themselves, were strongly synergized by two, more polar, Florisil fractions derived from females. Experimental design considerations are discussed. 
,   The aim of this study was to find the best model to obtain valid and normally distributed Z scores for coronary artery (CA) diameters in a large, heterogeneous population of healthy children.ocardiography was performed on 1,033 healthy children. Several regression models were tested with height, weight, body surface area, and aortic valve diameter. The computed Z scores were tested for normal distribution and stability.diameter was best predicted using regression with the square root of body surface area. The weighted least squares method yielded normally distributed and very stable Z-score estimates for all CA segments. In prepubertal children, aortic valve diameter was also a valid predictor of CA diameter.s study shows two valid methods to estimate Z scores for CA size in children of all ages. Such Z scores are important for risk stratification in patients with Kawasaki disease.
,   Fulgides are a representative class of photochromic organic molecules which exhibit several interesting properties for diverse applications in fields such as data storage or high-resolution spectroscopy. The crystal structures of three furyl fulgides with different steric constraints were determined and for two of the compounds both the E and Z isomer structures were defined. The compounds are 3-[(E)-1,3-dimethyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2-benzofuran-4-ylidene]-4-isopropylidenetetrahydrofuran-2,5-dione, C(17)H(18)O(4), (I-E), 3-[(E)-1,3-dimethyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-cyclohepta[c]furan-4-ylidene]-4-isopropylidenetetrahydrofuran-2,5-dione, C(18)H(20)O(4), (II-E), and the Z isomer, (II-Z), and 3-isopropylidene-4-[(E)-1-(5-methoxy-2-methyl-1-benzofuran-3-yl)ethylidene]tetrahydrofuran-2,5-dione, C(19)H(18)O(5), (III-E), with two molecules in the asymmetric unit, and the Z isomer, (III-Z). The structures of the E and Z isomers show only little differences in the bond lengths and angles inside the hexatriene unit. Because of the strained geometry there are deviations in the torsion angles. Furthermore, small differences in the distances between the bond-forming C atoms in the electrocyclization process give no explanation for the unequal photochromic behaviour.
,   The distribution of connectin (titin), nebulin and alpha-actinin in the areas of myotendinous junctions of chicken pectoralis muscles was examined by immunocytochemical methods. Staining with antibodies against connectin (4C9, SM1 and P1200) and nebulin formed 'doublets' flanking nonterminal Z-bands; near the end of muscle fibres 'singlets' were seen within the terminal sarcomere on the side adjacent to the terminal Z-bands. The apical regions of muscle processes, where no myosin filaments are present although actin filaments exist, were reactive with anti-nebulin but not with anti-connectin. Antibodies against pectoralis (skeletal muscle type) alpha-actinin stained non terminal Z-bands and that against gizzard (smooth muscle type) the sarcolemma. Terminal Z-bands were unreactive with both of these antibodies. These findings indicate that, although terminal and nonterminal Z-bands differ in their molecular composition, connectin and nebulin filaments appear to link myosin and actin filaments, respectively, to both Z-band types.
,   Over 200 beetle- and food-produced volatiles were collected from cultures of the saw-toothed grain beetleOryzaephilus surinamensis (L.) on oats. It proved possible to develop the electroantennogram recording technique for these beetles, despite their small size, allowing volatiles causing antennal responses to be identified by coupled GC-EAG and subsequent GCMS techniques. Three beetle-produced macrolide lactones were identified as (Z,Z)-3,6-dodecadien-11-olide, (Z,Z)-3,6-dodecadienolide, and (Z,Z)-5,8-tetradecadien-13-olide in an average ratio of 4.4∶1∶2. These have been reported as components of the aggregation pheromone from a different population of this species, although the ratio of the components produced was different. Three food volatiles with EAG activity were also identified: 1-octen-3-ol, 3-octanone, and nonanal. A mixture of the six identified volatiles produced similar levels of attraction, in a behavioral assay, to the entire mixture of collected volatiles. 
,   Plants synthesize carotenoids, which are essential for plant development and survival. These metabolites also serve as essential nutrients for human health. The biosynthetic pathway for all plant carotenoids occurs in chloroplasts and other plastids and requires 15-cis-ζ-carotene isomerase (Z-ISO). It was not known whether Z-ISO catalyzes isomerization alone or in combination with other enzymes. Here we show that Z-ISO is a bona fide enzyme and integral membrane protein. Z-ISO independently catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of the 15-15' carbon-carbon double bond in 9,15,9'-cis-ζ-carotene to produce the substrate required by the subsequent biosynthetic-pathway enzyme. We discovered that isomerization depends upon a ferrous heme b cofactor that undergoes redox-regulated ligand switching between the heme iron and alternate Z-ISO amino acid residues. Heme b-dependent isomerization of a large hydrophobic compound in a membrane was previously undescribed. As an isomerase, Z-ISO represents a new prototype for heme b proteins and potentially uses a new chemical mechanism.
,   An oxidase catalyzing conversion of N(alpha)-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-lysine (N(alpha)-Z-L-lysine) to N(alpha)-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-aminoadipate-delta-semialdehyde (N(alpha)-Z-L-AASA) was purified from Rhodococcus sp. AIU Z-35-1, and its properties were revealed. This enzyme catalyzed an oxidative deamination of the epsilon-amino group of N(alpha)-acyl-L-lysine and the alpha-amino group of N(epsilon)-acyl-L-lysine. The apparent K(m) value for N(alpha)-acetyl-L-lysine was much larger than that for N(epsilon)-acetyl-L-lysine. The peptidyl L-lysines, L-lysine and many other L-amino acids were also oxidized, but N(alpha)-acyl-D-lysine, N(epsilon)-acyl-D-lysine and D-amino acids were not. Thus, the conversion of N(alpha)-Z-L-lysine into N(alpha)-Z-L-AASA was catalyzed by the L-amino acid oxidase with broad substrate specificity. This enzyme, a flavoprotein with a molecular mass of 100 kDa, consisted of two identical subunits of 51 kDa.
,   The crystal structure of a Z-DNA hexamer duplex d(CGCGCG)(2) determined at ultra high resolution of 0.55 Å and refined without restraints, displays a high degree of regularity and rigidity in its stereochemistry, in contrast to the more flexible B-DNA duplexes. The estimations of standard uncertainties of all individually refined parameters, obtained by full-matrix least-squares optimization, are comparable with values that are typical for small-molecule crystallography. The Z-DNA model generated with ultra high-resolution diffraction data can be used to revise the stereochemical restraints applied in lower resolution refinements. Detailed comparisons of the stereochemical library values with the present accurate Z-DNA parameters, shows in general a good agreement, but also reveals significant discrepancies in the description of guanine-sugar valence angles and in the geometry of the phosphate groups.
,   Drosophila salivary chromosomes have been isolated at neutral pH and physiological ionic strength. They display only background level binding of antibodies against Z-DNA. Following exposure to the commonly used fixative 45% acetic acid all of the polytene chromosomes, X and autosomes, show a massive increase in anti-Z-DNA antibody binding. The enhancement from background to intense fluorescence occurs whether the chromosomes are stabilised by two orders of magnitude lower concentration of formaldehyde than that used to minimise protein extraction in classical acid squash preparations, or by physiological concentrations of spermine and spermidine. Nicking of acetic acid-treated chromosomes by DNase I dramatically reduces their Z-DNA immunoreactivity. The histones and non-histones extracted by 45% acetic acid from unfixed and formaldehyde-fixed Drosophila chromatin have been analysed. Exposure of isolated salivary chromosomes to the non-protein-extracting fixative 95% ethanol also enhances Z-DNA immunoreactivity. All of these phenomena must be taken into account in the search for the Z-DNA conformation in cells by cytological techniques.
,   We investigate the realization of a topological superconductor in a generic bucked honeycomb system equipped with four types of mass-generating terms, where the superconductor gap is introduced by attaching the honeycomb system to an s-wave superconductor. Constructing the topological phase diagram, we show that Majorana modes are formed in the phase boundary. In particular, we analyze the honeycomb system with antiferromagnetic order in the presence of perpendicular electric field E_{z}. It becomes topological for |E_{z}|>E_{z}^{cr} and trivial for |E_{z}|<E_{z}^{cr}, with E_{z}^{cr} a certain critical field. It is possible to create a topological spot in a trivial superconductor by controlling applied electric field. One Majorana zero-energy bound state appears at the phase boundary. We can arbitrarily control the position of the Majorana fermion by moving the spot of applied electric field, which will be made possible by a scanning tunneling microscope probe. 
,   The first fully structurally characterized ternary europium palladium hydrides (deuterides) are reported. The most Eu rich compound is Eu(2)PdD(4). Its beta-K(2)SO(4) type structure (space group Pnma, a = 749.47(1) pm, b = 543.34(1) pm, c = 947.91(1) pm, Z = 4) contains tetrahedral 18-electron [PdD(4)](4)(-) complex anions and divalent Eu cations. The compound is presumably nonmetallic and shows paramagnetic behavior (mu(eff) = 8.0(2) mu(B)) with ferromagnetic ordering at T(C) = 15.1(4) K. A metallic compound at intermediate Eu content is EuPdD(3). It crystallizes with the cubic perovskite structure (space group Pm3m, a = 380.01(2) pm, Z = 1) in which palladium is octahedrally surrounded by fully occupied deuterium sites. Metallic hydrides at low Eu content form by reversible hydrogen absorption of intermetallic EuPd(2) (Fd3m, a = 775.91(1) pm, Z = 8). Depending on the experimental conditions at least three phases with distinctly different hydrogen contents x exist: EuPd(2)H(x) ( approximately )(0.1) (a = 777.02(2) pm, Z = 8, T = 298 K, p(H(2)) = 590 kPa), EuPd(2)H(x) ( approximately )(1.5) (a = 794.47(5) pm, Z = 8, T = 298 K, p(H(2)) = 590 kPa), and EuPd(2)H(x) ( approximately )(2.1) (a = 802.1(1) pm, Z = 8, T = 350 K, p(H(2)) = 610 kPa). All crystallize with cubic Laves phase derivative structures and have presumably disordered hydrogen distributions.
,   The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of z-score mapping method on neuroradiologists' performance in quantification of the extent of hypoattenuation regions of hyperacute stroke on unenhanced computed tomographic (CT) images by using the Alberta Stroke Programme Early CT Score system.nty-one patients with infarction (<3 hours) were retrospectively selected. Five neuroradiologists interpreted CT images first without and then with z-score maps by using the Alberta Stroke Programme Early CT Score system. Their performances in the quantification of the extent of hypoattenuation were compared.rage accuracies for the quantification without and with the z-score maps were 82.6% and 86.6%, respectively (P < 0.0001). The average area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for detection of focal hypoattenuation significantly increased from 0.883 to 0.925 (P = 0.01) by use of z-score maps. use of z-score mapping method has the potential to help neuroradiologists quantify the extent of hypoattenuation regions of hyperacute stroke on unenhanced CT images.
,   In coastal areas of China, the seagrass Zostera japonica has drastically decreased in the past decades. Swan Lake is an exception, where we found extensive areas of Z. japonica beds. The growth of Z. japonica in the lagoon exhibited strong seasonal variation. The maximum shoot density of 9880±2786 shoots m(-2) occurred in August. The maximum specific growth rate (SGR) of 4.99±1.99%⋅d(-1) was recorded in June 2012. SGR might be a good parameter for assessing the growth status of Z. japonica population. N and P contents in the rhizome were significantly lower than those in the leaf and leaf sheath. Lower C/P ratios suggested P enrichment of the seagrass. The occurrence of Z. japonica in Swan Lake was featured by adapting to the intertidal harsh environments. The transplantation method using sectioned rhizomes would be a potential way for restoration of degraded Z. japonica beds. The establishment of the Rongcheng Swan National Nature Reserve in China has contributed to the survival and expansion of Z. japonica in Swan Lake.
,   Zymomonas mobilis is a promising organism for biofuel production as it can produce ethanol from glucose at high rates. However, Z. mobilis does not natively ferment C5 sugars such as xylose. While it has been engineered to do so, the engineered strains do not metabolize these sugars at high rates. Previous research has identified some of the bottlenecks associated with xylose metabolism in Z. mobilis. In this work, we investigated transport as a possible bottleneck. In particular, we hypothesized that the slow uptake of xylose through the promiscuous Glf transporter may limit the efficiency of xylose metabolism in Z. mobilis. To test this hypothesis, we expressed XylE, the low-affinity xylose transporter from Escherichia coli, in a xylose-utilizing strain of Z. mobilis. Our results show that the expression of this pentose-specific transporter improves the rate of xylose utilization in Z. mobilis; however, this enhancement is seen only at high xylose concentrations. In addition, we also found that overexpression of the promiscuous Z. mobilis transporter Glf yielded similar results, suggesting that the transport bottleneck is not due to the specificity, but rather the capacity for sugar uptake.
,   Studies of lateral diffusion are used for the characterization of the dynamics of biological membranes. One of the techniques that can be used for this purpose is fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), which belongs to the single-molecule techniques. Unfortunately, FCS measurements, when performed in planar lipid systems, are associated with a few sources of inaccuracy in the determination of the lateral diffusion coefficient. The main problems are related to the imperfect positioning of the laser focus relative to the plane of the sample. Another source of inaccuracy is the requirement for external calibration of the detection volume size. This protocol introduces a calibration-free method called Z-scan fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (Z-scan FCS), which is based on the determination of the diffusion time and particle number in steps along the optical (z-) axis by sequential FCS measurements. Z-scan FCS could be employed for diffusion measurements in planar membrane model systems-supported phospholipid bilayers (SPBs) and giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) and also in biological membranes. A result from measurements in SPBs is also presented in the protocol as a principle example of the Z-scan technique. 
,   Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI (fMRI) can be severely hampered by signal loss due to susceptibility-induced static magnetic field (B(0)) inhomogeneities near air/tissue interfaces. A single-shot spiral-in/out sequence with a z-shim gradient embedded between the two acquisitions was previously proposed to efficiently recover the signal. However, despite promising results, this technique had several limitations, which are addressed here as follows. First, by adding a second z-shim gradient before the spiral-in acquisition and optimizing both z-shim gradients slice-by-slice, a significantly more uniform signal recovery can be achieved. Second, by acquiring a B(0) map, the optimal z-shim gradients can be directly, efficiently, and accurately determined for each subject. Third, by complementing the z-shimming approach with sensitivity encoding (SENSE), the in-plane spatial resolution can be increased and, hence, susceptibility artifacts further reduced, while maintaining a high temporal resolution for fMRI applications. These advantages are demonstrated in human functional studies.
,   Bone mineral density (BMD) is reduced in epilepsy and may underlie the observed increased fracture rate. Non-ambulatory patients have reduced BMD, although, it is not clear if normally weight bearing ambulatory patients are similarly vulnerable.ss-sectional study examining age- and gender-specific z-score total bone mineral density (z-BMD) in 116 normally ambulatory children with epilepsy between ages 6 and 18 years (79 idiopathic epilepsy and 37 symptomatic epilepsy) were compared to 36 healthy controls.h idiopathic and symptomatic epilepsies were associated with lower z-BMD (0.38+/-1 and 0.17+/-1, respectively) compared to controls (0.52+/-0.76). For both groups patients with generalized seizures had lower z-BMD than those with partial seizures. Symptomatic generalized epilepsy was associated with the lowest z-BMD (-0.15+/-1.1) compared to controls (p < 0.05). Increasing duration of symptomatic epilepsy, but not idiopathic epilepsy, was associated with lower z-BMD (correlation coefficient = 0.1; p < 0.01).h idiopathic and symptomatic epilepsy are associated with reduced BMD. Those with symptomatic epilepsy, particularly symptomatic generalized epilepsy, had the greatest reduction in BMD despite normal weight bearing and ambulation. These data suggests that BMD is reduced in epilepsy beyond what can be explained by lack of ambulation and may underlie the vulnerability to fractures.
,   The differential staining of the 3 fiber types for oxidative enzyme activity at the histochemical level provides the basis of their identification at the ultrastructural level. Type I fibers have the largest and most numerous mitochondria, the Type IIA smaller and less numerous mitochondria, and Type IIB have the smallest and least numerous mitochondria as studied in 4 patients without neuromuscular disease. Type I fibers could be distinguished from Type II fibers on the basis of mean Z-line width and IIA fibers could be distinguished from IIB fibers on the basis of mean M-line width. Type I fibers had wide Z-lines (95 nm) and wide M-lines (89 nm), Type IIA had narrow Z-lines (74 nm) and wide M-lines (79 nm) and Type IIB fibers had narrow Z-lines (69 nm) and narrow M-lines (60 nm). This system of fiber typing based on relative Z-line and M-line widths was applied to several abnormal muscle biopsies each of which showed a deficiency in at least 1 of the major histochemical fiber types. In each case, the same deficiency was revealed at the ultrastructural level by measuring the relative Z-line and M-line widths of the remaining fiber types.
,   Purified extracts of alpha-antitrypsin cross-reacting material (CRM) from liver of patients with MM, ZZ, and MZ phenotypes were studied by acid-starch electrophoresis and crossed immunoelectrophoresis. It is believed that CRM-M from liver is derived primarily from postmortem digested serum antitrypsin, whereas CRM-Z is a product of postmortem digested antitrypsin from hepatocytes. All extracts produced small bands of antitrypsin on the cathodal side of the gel: A single M band migrated faster than the single Z band, whereas CRM from an MZ heterozygote produced a combination of 2 mobile bands. The CRM-Z (from a ZZ phenotype) did not migrate toward the anode, in contrast to the presence of a broad plateau of antitrypsin protein with CRM-M (from an MM phenotype) or CRM-MZ. Thus, most of the CRM-Z protein could not be accounted for on routine acid-starch electrophoresis. However, an anodal peak could be seen on starch gels with CRM-Z at less acidic pH, suggesting that the anodal-migrating CRM-Z protein is denatured and loses antigenicity at lower pH.
,   Triplex-forming oligodeoxynucleotide 15mers, designed to bind in the antiparallel triple-helical binding motif, containing single substitutions (Z) of the four isomeric alphaN(7)-, betaN(7)-, alphaN(9)- and betaN(9)-2-aminopurine (ap)-deoxyribonucleosides were prepared. Their association with double-stranded DNA targets containing all four natural base pairs (X-Y) opposite the aminopurine residues was determined by quantitative DNase I footprint titration in the absence of monovalent metal cations. The corresponding association constants were found to be in a rather narrow range between 1.0 x 10(6) and 1.3 x 10(8) M(-1). The following relative order in Z x X-Y base-triple stabilities was found: Z = alphaN(7)ap: T-A > A-T> C-G approximately G-C; Z = betaN(7)ap: A-T > C-G > G-C > T-A; Z = alphaN(9)ap: A-T = G-C > T-A > C-G; and Z = betaN(9)ap: G-C > A-T > C-G > T-A.
,   Several authors have cautioned against using Fisher's z-transformation in random-effects meta-analysis of correlations, which seems to perform poorly in some situations, especially with substantial inter-study heterogeneity. Attributing this performance largely to the direct z-to-r transformation (DZRT) of Fisher z results (e.g. point estimate of mean correlation), in a previous paper Hafdahl (2009) proposed point and interval estimators of the mean Pearson r correlation that instead use an integral z-to-r transformation (IZRT). The present Monte Carlo study of these IZRT Fisher z estimators includes comparisons with their DZRT counterparts and with estimators based on Pearson r correlations. The IZRT point estimator was usually more accurate and efficient than its DZRT counterpart and comparable to the two Pearson r point estimators - better in some conditions but worse in others. Coverage probability for the IZRT confidence intervals (CIs) was often near nominal, much better than for the DZRT CIs, and comparable to coverage for the Pearson r CIs; every approach's CI fell markedly below nominal in some conditions. The IZRT estimators contradict warnings about Fisher z estimators' poor performance. Recommendations for practising research synthesists are offered, and an Appendix provides computing code to implement the IZRT as in the real-data example.
,   We used the cut-sensillum technique to assess the effect of both adult age and egg-to-adult development time on olfactory neuron responses of Z strain moths of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis. Compounds tested included the pheromone components, (Z)-11-tetradecenyl acetate and (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate, the behavioral antagonist, (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate, and components of the O. furnicalis (Asian corn borer) sex pheromone, (Z)-12-tetradecenyl acetate and (E)-12-tetradecenyl acetate. The proportion of moths having neurons responding to the two O. nubilalis sex pheromone components and antagonist increased with longer development time and age. The spike frequency of neurons responding to (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate and the antagonist increased with longer development time. Fourteen of 45 moths with neurons sensitive to either of the O. nubilalis pheromone components responded to (Z)-12-tetradecenyl acetate or (E)-12-tetradecenyl acetate. The likelihood of (Z)-12-tetradecenyl acetate stimulating a neuron similar in spike shape and waveform to that responding to (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate increased with development time.
,   The influence of topoisomerase I and gyrase mutations in Escherichia coli on the supercoiled density of recombinant plasmids and the stability of left-handed Z-DNA was investigated. The formation of Z-DNA in vivo by dC-dG sequences of different lengths was used to determine the effective plasmid supercoil densities in the mutant strains. The presence of Z-DNA in the cells was detected by linking number and EcoRI methylase inhibition assays. A change in the unrestrained superhelical tension in vivo directly effects the B- to Z-DNA transition. Alterations in the internal or external environment of the cells, such as the inactivation of gyrase or topoisomerase I, a gyrase temperature-sensitive mutant, or starvation of cells, have a dramatic influence on the topology of plasmids. Also, E. coli has significantly more superhelical strain than Klebsiella, Morganella, or Enterobacter. These studies indicate that linking deficiency and effective supercoil density are mutually independent variables of plasmid tertiary structure. A variety of factors, such as protein-DNA interactions, activity of topoisomerases, and the resulting supercoil density, contribute to the B to Z transition inside living cells.
,   A quick and accurate way to rotate and shift nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) images using the two-dimensional chirp-z transform is presented. When the desired image grid is rotated and shifted from the original grid due to patient motion, the chirp-z transform can reconstruct NMR images directly onto the ultimate grid instead of reconstructing onto the original grid and then applying interpolation to get the final real-space image in the conventional way. The rotation angle and shift distances are embedded in the parameters of the chirp-z transform. The chirp-z transform implements discrete sinc interpolation to get values at grid points that are not exactly on the original grid when applying the inverse Fourier transform. Therefore, the chirp-z transform is more accurate than methods such as linear or bicubic interpolation and is more efficient than direct implementation of sinc interpolation because the sinc interpolation is implemented at the same time as reconstruction from k-space.
,   The lack of techniques for rapid assembly of gene deletion vectors, paucity of selectable marker genes available for genetic manipulation and low frequency of homologous recombination are major constraints in construction of gene deletion mutants in Zymoseptoria tritici. To address these issues, we have constructed ternary vectors for Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation of Z. tritici, which enable the single step assembly of multiple fragments via yeast recombinational cloning. The sulfonylurea resistance gene, which is a mutated allele of the Magnaporthe oryzae ILV2 gene, was established as a new dominant selectable marker for Z. tritici. To increase the frequency of homologous recombination, we have constructed Z. tritici strains deficient in the non-homologous end joining pathway of DNA double stranded break repair by inactivating the KU70 and KU80 genes. Targeted gene deletion frequency increased to more than 85% in both Z. tritici ku70 and ku80 null strains, compared to ⩽10% seen in the wild type parental strain IPO323. The in vitro growth and in planta pathogenicity of the Z. tritici ku70 and ku80 null strains were comparable to strain IPO323. Together these molecular tools add significantly to the platform available for genomic analysis through targeted gene deletion or promoter replacements and will facilitate large-scale functional characterization projects in Z. tritici. 
,   The N-demethylation of the individual Z-(cis) and E-(trans) isomers of the tricyclic antidepressant doxepin was studied by examining the 0-8 hr serum concentration-time and the 0-72 hr urinary excretion profiles of parent drug and metabolite in eight healthy males who had received a single oral dose consisting of 25 mg each of Z-[2H0]- and E-[2H4]-labeled drug as the hydrochloride salt. Interconversion of doxepin's isomers was not observed but stereoselective excretion was present. Significant amounts of Z-N-desmethyldoxepin were formed and excreted after dosing with E-doxepin, the urinary Z/E ratio ranging from 0.08 to 3.06. A small amount of nondeuterated E-N-desmethyldoxepin was formed from Z-doxepin in most, but not all, subjects. These findings indicate that isomerization occurs during the N-demethylation of doxepin, possibly involving the formation of an intermediate in which the exocyclic double bond is hydrated and then subseqently dehydrated. This novel biotransformation process accounts for the observation that the Z/E plasma concentration ratio of N-desmethyldoxepin is often greater than that of the administered doxepin in patients receiving the drug therapeutically.
,   Left-handed Z-DNA binds tightly to Ustilago rec1 protein. The binding reaction is strongly dependent on ATP, but complexes formed are rapidly dissociated by ADP. The parallel between the kinetics of Z-DNA binding and the synaptic pairing reaction leading to paranemic joint molecules suggests that formation of nascent heteroduplex structures in recombination is coupled with formation of left-handed Z-like DNA on the protein. Equilibrium and kinetic studies show that rec1 protein appears to have a strong Z-DNA binding site that binds Z-DNA 75 times tighter than the B form of the DNA. We propose that DNA with a structure approximated best by a left-handed Z-DNA conformation is a key intermediate in homologous pairing promoted by rec1 protein.
,   Song-Bing H, Hao Z, Jian Z, Guo-Qiang Z, Tuo H, Dai-Wei W, Wen G, Lin G, Yi Z, Xiao-Feng X, Li-Feng Z, Min F, Shui-Qing H, Xiao-Dong Y, Xin-Guo Z, Liang W, De-Chun L. Inhibition of EZH2 expression is associated with the proliferation, apoptosis and migration of SW620 colorectal cancer cells in vitro. Experimental Biology and Medicine July 8, 2014. doi: 10.1177/1535370214542215 A previous Online First version of the article 'Inhibition of EZH2 expression is associated with the proliferation, apoptosis and migration of SW620 colorectal cancer cells in vitro', first published on July 8, 2014 as doi: 10.1177/1535370214542215, has been amended in the current version of record as below. Text in red indicates changes made to the original published version, requested because of unattributed duplication. Inhibition of EZH2 expression is associated with the proliferation, apoptosis and migration of SW620 colorectal cancer cells in vitro. 
,   Guinea pig liver transglutaminase has been found to catalyze the covalent incorporation of dansylcadaverine into chicken skeletal muscle myofibril proteins. Epifluorescence microscopy reveals that the incorporated dansylcadaverine is specifically localized at or near the myofibril Z line. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) indicates that actin constitutes a major fraction of the labeled material; the Z-line proteins alpha-actinin and desmin also show significant labeling, as well as tropomyosin, several additional unidentified proteins, and material with an extremely high molecular weight. The Z-line-specific fluorescence can be removed by brief trypsinization, which releases fluorescent alpha-actinin into the supernate. The majority of the fluorescent protein species are resistant to extraction by either 0.6 M KCl or KI. These results, in conjunction with the microscopic localization, suggest that the dansyl-labeled proteins are constituents of the myofibril Z line. A significant amount of fluorescently labeled transglutaminase is also present in labeled myofibrils, which is resistant to extraction with either 0.6 M KCl or KI. This result indicates a strong, noncovalent interaction between the transglutaminase molecule and the myofibril Z line.
,   Susceptibility-induced magnetic field gradients (SFGs) perpendicular to the slice plane often result in signal dropout in blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments. Two-dimensional (2D) z-shim methods reduce these effects by acquiring multiple images with different slice refocusing gradient areas. In this work a 3D z-shim method is introduced as a more efficient alternative. The technique augments the k-space data for a conventional 3D phase encoding acquisition with N additional lines that extend the k(z) coverage sufficiently to sample k-space fully in regions with SFGs. Multiple subsets of these data are reconstructed using a sliding window that provides N +1 z-shim images. Fewer total acquisitions are required than with the 2D method for the same coverage, and finer z-shim steps are obtained. The technique is demonstrated with a motor task using intentionally introduced SFGs and compared with the 2D method. The results confirm increased BOLD SNR and activation with the new method in good agreement with theory. Magn Reson Med 42:290-299, 1999.
,   The present paper reports the crystal structures of two short phosphonotripeptides (one in two crystal forms) containing one ΔPhe (dehydrophenylalanine) residue, namely dimethyl (3-{[tert-butoxycarbonylglycyl-α,β-(Z)-dehydrophenylalanyl]amino}propyl)phosphonate, Boc(0)-Gly(1)-Δ(Z)Phe(2)-α-Abu(3)PO3Me2, C21H32N3O7P, (I), and diethyl (4-{[tert-butoxycarbonylglycyl-α,β-(Z)-dehydrophenylalanyl]amino}butyl)phosphonate, Boc(0)-Gly(1)-Δ(Z)Phe(2)-α-Nva(3)PO3Et2, as the propan-2-ol monosolvate 0.122-hydrate, C24H38N3O7P·C3H8O·0.122H2O, (II), and the ethanol monosolvate 0.076-hydrate, C24H38N3O7P·C2H6O·0.076H2O, (III). The crystals of (II) and (III) are isomorphous but differ in the type of solvent. The phosphono group is linked directly to the last Cα atom in the main chain for all three peptides. All the amino acids are trans linked in the main chains. The crystal structures exhibit no intramolecular hydrogen bonds and are stabilized by intermolecular hydrogen bonds only.
,   To establish a qualitative system for the identification of benzoic acid, sorbic acid and dehydroacetic acid residues in alcoholic drinks and beverages by ultra-fast liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (UFLC/ESI-MS/MS).er the sample was extracted, the separation was performed by UFLC and the cracking was used by the optimized ESI-MS/ MS conditions. Confirmatory detection was carried out by the principle of three qualitative ions and retention time using an UFLC-MS/MS in the negative electrospray ionization mode. MS/MS fragment ions were reliable and steady under the suitable conditions, the cracking ways to the parent ions and fragment ions were clear. Qualitative ion pairs were m/z 121-->77 and m/z 121-->59 for benzoic acid, m/z 111-->67 and m/z 111-->41 for sorbic acid, m/z 167-->83 and m/z 167-->123 for dehydroacetic acid. The limits of quantitation (LOQs) were 0.02, 0.05 and 0.02 mg/L for benzoic acid, sorbic acid and dehydroacetic acid, respectively. established method was rapid, accurate and sensitive, it is suitable for confirmation for benzoic acid, sorbic acid and dehydroacetic acid residues in alcoholic drinks and beverages.
,   The residual contact toxicity of three benzofuranoids (Z)-butylidenephthalide (1), (3S)-butylphthalide (2), and (Z)-ligustilide (3) identified in the rhizome of Cnidium officinale (Apiaceae) to B- and Q-biotype females of Bemisia tabaci was evaluated using a leaf-dip bioassay. Results were compared with those of eight conventional insecticides. Based on 24 h LC(50) values, (Z)-butylidenephthalide (254 ppm) and (Z)-ligustilide (268 ppm) were more toxic than (3S)-butylphthalide (339 ppm) against B-biotype females, whereas (Z)-ligustilide (254 ppm) and (3S)-butylphthalide (338 ppm) were more toxic than (Z)-butylidenephthalide (586 ppm) against Q-biotype females. Thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, and acetamiprid differ significantly in toxicity between the B- and Q-biotype females (LC(50), 1.7 to 11.6 vs 364.5 to >3000 ppm). This original finding indicates that the phthalides and the neonicotinoids do not share a common mode of action or elicit cross-resistance. Structure-activity relationship indicates that the presence of conjugation rather than aromaticity appeared to play an important role for phthalide toxicities to the B-biotype females. Global efforts to reduce the level of highly toxic synthetic insecticides in the agricultural environment justify further studies on C. officinale rhizome-derived materials as potential insecticides for the control of B. tabaci populations.
,   Although many precautions have been introduced into early burn management, post burn contractures are still significant problems in burn patients. In this study, a form of Z-plasty in combination with relaxing incision was used for the correction of contractures.operatively, a Z-advancement rotation flap combined with a relaxing incision was drawn on the contracture line. Relaxing incision created a skin defect like a rhomboid. Afterwards, both limbs of the Z flap were incised. After preparation of the flaps, advancement and rotation were made in order to cover the rhomboid defect. Besides subcutaneous tissue, skin edges were closely approximated with sutures.s study included sixteen patients treated successfully with this flap. It was used without encountering any major complications such as infection, hematoma, flap loss, suture dehiscence or flap necrosis. All rotated and advanced flaps healed uneventfully. In all but one patient, effective contracture release was achieved by means of using one or two Z-plasty. In one patient suffering severe left upper extremity contracture, a little residual contracture remained due to inadequate release.n dealing with this type of Z-plasty for mild contractures, it offers a new option for the correction of post burn contractures, which is safe, simple and effective.
,   At many trichloroethene (TCE)-contaminated field sites, microbial transformation of TCE results in the accumulation of vinyl chloride (VC), a known carcinogen and neurotoxin. Quantitative tools are needed to determine the in situ rates of VC transformation to ethene in contaminated groundwater. For this study, E-/Z-chlorofluoroethene (E-/Z-CFE) was evaluated as a surrogate for VC in laboratory microcosm and field push-pull tests. Single-well push-pull tests were conducted at a TCE-contaminated field site by injecting E-/Z-CFE and monitoring for the formation of fluoroethene (FE) over a period of up to 80 days. The rates for VC transformation to ethene and E-CFE transformation to FE were within a factor of 2.7 for laboratory microcosm systems and all preferentiallytransformed E-CFE over Z-CFE. In the field, the in situ rates of FE production from injected E-CFE ranged from 0.0018 to 1.15 microM/day, while the in situ rates of E-CFE disappearance ranged from 0.17 to 0.99 microM/day. No significant Z-CFE transformation was observed in field tests, which indicated preferential utilization of E-CFE over Z-CFE under in situ field conditions. The results of this study indicate E-CFE as a potential surrogate for estimating the in situ rates of VC transformation.
,   The sex pheromone of aPlanotortrix excessana sibling species was investigated. Females were found to produce eight potential pheromone components: dodecyl acetate, tetradecyl acetate (14∶OAc). (Z)-5-tetradecenyl acetate (Z5-14∶OAc), (Z)-7-tetradecenyl acetate (Z7-14∶OAc), (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate, hexadecyl acetate, (Z)-7-hexadecenyl acetate, and (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate. When these compounds were bioassayed using field-trapping and wind-tunnel techniques, only 14∶OAc,Z5-14∶OAc, andZ7-14∶OAc were found to be behaviorally active. The sex pheromone glands of females of other species including,Planotortrix "MBS,"Planotortrix "M,"P. notophaea, Ctenopseustis servana, and aC. obliquana sibling species, were also found to containZ5-14∶OAc orZ7-14∶OAc, singly or in combination. In the case ofPlanotortrix "M," the addition ofZ7-14∶OAc to the previously identified sex pheromone blend ofZ5-14∶OAc and 14∶OAc was found to increase trap captures of male moths of this species. Thus in these New Zealand species (and in some Australian species),Z5-14∶OAc andZ7-14∶OAc appear to be utilized in combination in pheromonal communication just as (Z)-11-tetradecenyl acetate and (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate are used by many species of Holarctic Tortricidae in the tribe Archipini. 
,   A new sensitive and selective method has been developed for the quantification of the total coenzyme Q9 (CoQ9) and coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) concentration in vegetable oil samples. The coenzyme Q fraction is isolated by solid-phase extraction (SPE) on amino phase eluting with a mixture of heptane:ethyl ether. The organic solvent is evaporated under nitrogen, and the residue is dissolved in a mixture of acetonitrile:tetrahydrofuran and finally is analyzed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with a mass detector. The sensitivity of the method is based on the high efficient formation of the radical anions [M (-.)] of CoQ9 and CoQ10 by negative atmospheric pressure ionization. Interferences are minimized by using mass detection of the [M (-.)] ions ( m/ z = 797.5 for CoQ9 and m/ z = 862.5 for CoQ10) in selective reaction monitoring mode ( m/ z = 797.5 --> m/ z = 779.5 and m/ z = 862.5 --> m/ z = 847.5) using a triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer. The method was successfully applied to sunflower, soybean, and rapeseed oils, with a limit of quantification of 0.025 mg/kg for both compounds.
,   A broadly applicable Ru-catalyzed protocol for Z-selective ring-opening/cross-metathesis (ROCM) is disclosed. In addition to reactions relating to terminal alkenes of different sizes, the first examples of Z-selective ROCM processes involving heteroaryl olefins, 1,3-dienes, and O- and S-substituted alkenes as well as allylic and homoallylic alcohols are reported. Z-Selective transformations with an α-substituted allylic alcohol are shown to afford congested Z alkenes with high diastereoselectivity. Transformations are performed in the presence of 2.0-5.0 mol % of a recently disclosed Ru-based dithiolate complex that can be easily prepared in a single step from commercially available starting materials. Typically, transformations proceed at ambient temperature and are complete within eight hours; products are obtained in up to 97 % yield, >98:2 Z/E, and >98:2 diastereomeric ratio. The present investigations reveal a mechanistically significant attribute of the Ru-based dithiolates that arises from electrostatic interactions with anionic S-based ligands.
,   Sample thickness is a decisive parameter for any quantification of image information and composition in transmission electron microscopy. In this context, we present a method to determine the local sample thickness by scanning transmission electron microscopy at primary energies below 30 keV. The image intensity is measured with respect to the intensity of the incident electron beam and can be directly compared with Monte Carlo simulations. Screened Rutherford and Mott scattering cross-sections are evaluated with respect to fitting experimental data with simulated image intensities as a function of the atomic number of the sample material and primary electron energy. The presented method is tested for sample materials covering a wide range of atomic numbers Z, that is, fluorenyl hexa-peri-hexabenzocoronene (Z = 3.5), carbon (Z = 6), silicon (Z = 14), gallium nitride (Z = 19), and tungsten (Z = 74). Investigations were conducted for two primary energies (15 and 30 keV) and a sample thickness range between 50 and 400 nm. 
,   For the W7-X stellarator a diagnostic system for measurement of local Z(eff) values from the visible bremsstrahlung continuum is foreseen. The method is based on passive, absolute measurement of the bremsstrahlung intensity along several lines of sight. In order to eliminate the spurious impact of other radiation sources of different spectral intensity distribution than the bremsstrahlung, like the line radiation, it is intended to spectrally resolve the detected radiation, e.g., by use of microspectrometers. The visible bremsstrahlung background can be extracted by making use of the 1/lambda(2) dependence of its intensity (expressed in unit Wm(3) sr nm) in the high temperature plasmas by using Bayesian data analysis techniques. In a second step, the local values of Z(eff) as a function of the effective plasma radius are derived by inversion, using different regularization methods, of the line-integrated bremsstrahlung signals with the knowledge of the magnetic flux surfaces. Inversion of the full model based on statistical methods allows taking into account all conceivable uncertainties accompanying Z(eff) measurement and provides uncertainties of the local Z(eff) values and valuable information on other uncertain parameters of the model. In this paper we show the first steps in developing a virtual Z(eff) diagnostic for W7-X which allows the optimization of the statistical model as well as of the future diagnostic setup.
,   Development of objectionable fishy off-flavors is an obstacle in the development of fish oil enriched foods. Only little is known about the sensory impact of specific volatile fish oil oxidation products in food emulsions. This study examined the volatiles profiles of fish oil enriched milk during cold storage (2 degrees C) for 14 days by dynamic headspace sampling followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses. Different volatiles (n = 60) comprising alkenals, alkadienals, alkatrienals, and vinyl ketones were identified in the fish oil enriched milk. The potent odorants identified by gas chromatography-olfactometry were 1-penten-3-one, (Z)-4-heptenal, 1-octen-3-one, (Z)-1,5-octadien-3-one, (E,E)-2,4-heptadienal, and (E,Z)-2,6-nonadienal, but despite their potency, none of the separated volatiles imparted a fishy or metallic odor. Two isomers, (E,Z,Z) and (E,E,Z) of 2,4,7-decatrienal were identified in fish oil enriched milk emulsions with peroxide values 0.8 and 3.4 meq/kg, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report on appearance of these decatrienals in food emulsions having a relatively low peroxide value.
,   Highly selective gas-phase reactions with ethyl vinyl ether (EVE) of major electron (EI) and chemical ionization (CI) fragment ions of the explosives TNT and RDX have been uncovered. The fragment ion of m/z 210 from TNT undergoes [4(+)+ 2] cycloaddition with EVE to form an oxo-iminium ion of m/z 282, which dissociates by acetaldehyde loss after a [1,5-H] shift to form a quinolynium ion of m/z 238. The fragment ion of m/z 149 from RDX reacts with EVE by a formal vinylation reaction, that is, the elusive cyclic adduct loses ethanol to yield a nitro-iminium ion of m/z 175, which reacts further with EVE to form a second cyclic product ion of m/z 247. Calculations and MS/MS experiments support the proposed structures. These highly characteristic reactions of diagnostic EI and CI fragment ions improve selectivity for TNT and RDX detection.
,   To investigate infant overweight and rapid weight gain as predictors of overweight and adiposity in childhood.spective, longitudinal birth cohort following 153 low-income Brazilian children. Weight, length, middle upper arm circumference (MUAC) and triceps skinfold thickness (TSF) were measured on enrolment and 6-monthly for 18 months. Anthropometric z-scores were calculated.ants with overweight were >5 times likely to have MUAC z-score >2, >6 times likely to have weight-for-height/length z-score >2 and >3 times likely to have TSF z-score >2 during childhood. Children with more than two overweight episodes were 27.7 [95% confidence interval (CI) 8.1-87.9] times more likely to have MUAC z-score >2 and 13.8 (95% CI 4.4-43.9) times more likely to have TSF z-score >2 in childhood. Rapid weight gain increased 10.7 (95% CI 2.3-50.0) times the risk of childhood overweight.ant overweight and rapid weight gain predict overweight and adiposity in childhood among low-income children.
,   Characterization of binding hot spots of protein interfaces is a fundamental study in molecular biology. Many computational methods have been proposed to identify binding hot spots. However, there are few studies to assess the biological significance of binding hot spots. We introduce the notion of biological significance of a contact residue for capturing the probability of the residue occurring in or contributing to protein binding interfaces. We take a statistical Z-score approach to the assessment of the biological significance. The method has three main steps. First, the potential score of a residue is defined by using a knowledge-based potential function with relative accessible surface area calculations. A null distribution of this potential score is then generated from artifact crystal packing contacts. Finally, the Z-score significance of a contact residue with a specific potential score is determined according to this null distribution. We hypothesize that residues at binding hot spots have big absolute values of Z-score as they contribute greatly to binding free energy. Thus, we propose to use Z-score to predict whether a contact residue is a hot spot residue. Comparison with previously reported methods on two benchmark datasets shows that this Z-score method is mostly superior to earlier methods. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Computational Methods for Protein Interaction and Structural Prediction.
,   Two trials were conducted with a total of 91 lactating sows fed 0, 5 or 10 ppm dietary zearalenone (Z) and 0 or 15% dietary alfalfa in a factorial arrangement to evaluate their influence on reproductive performance to 40 d postbreeding. Feeding of Z did not alter the proportion of sows returning to estrus; however, the weaning-to-estrus interval increased when increased dietary Z was fed in Trial 2, with a similar trend at the highest level in Trial 1. The average number of fetuses per sow with fetuses tended to decrease (P less than .05) with increasing dietary Z in Trial 2, but not in Trial 1. Embryonic mortality did not appear to increase when the ratio of fetuses to corpora lutea was compared in sows with fetuses in Trial 1, but it did increase in Trial 2. The trend to increased numbers of bred sows that were non-pregnant at slaughter when dietary Z increased in Trial 1 was not observed in Trial 2. Dietary dehydrated alfalfa meal did not appear to modify the effects of Z in these trials.
,   Esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) is relatively limited because of poor visualization of the distal esophagus. This study aimed to investigate whether string esophageal capsule endoscopy with real-time viewing (SECE+RTV) could improve the Z-line viewing of the distal esophagus as compared with conventional ECE.rty healthy volunteers, aged 20-45 years, were recruited and underwent SECE+RTV and ECE sequentially. The main outcome measures included grade of air-bubble and saliva interference, success rate of Z-line viewing (frequency of visualizing at least three quadrants), and frame number of images captured on the Z-line.E+RTV showed a significantly greater percentage of no or mild air-bubble/saliva interference at the gastroesophageal junction [SECE+RTV vs. ECE, 90.0% (27/30) vs. 10.0% (3/30), P<0.001]. SECE+RTV had a significantly greater frame number of images captured on the Z-line (154.4±6.3 vs. 46±5.1, P<0.001). Moreover, SECE+RTV had significantly greater percentages of at least two quadrants [100.0% (30/30) vs. 80.0% (24/30), P<0.001] and at least three quadrants [90.0% (27/30) vs. 36.7% (11/30), P<0.001] of Z-line visualization.pared with ECE, SECE+RTV provides a better view of the distal esophagus in healthy individuals.
,   We developed a simple and accurate method for determining deuterium enrichment of glucose hydrogen atoms by electron impact gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC/MS). First, we prepared 18 derivatives of glucose and screened over 200 glucose fragments to evaluate the accuracy and precision of mass isotopomer data for each fragment. We identified three glucose derivatives that gave six analytically useful ions: (1) glucose aldonitrile pentapropionate (m/z 173 derived from C4-C5 bond cleavage; m/z 259 from C3-C4 cleavage; m/z 284 from C4-C5 cleavage; and m/z 370 from C5-C6 cleavage); (2) glucose 1,2,5,6-di-isopropylidene propionate (m/z 301, no cleavage of glucose carbon atoms); and (3) glucose methyloxime pentapropionate (m/z 145 from C2-C3 cleavage). Deuterium enrichment at each carbon position of glucose was determined by least-squares regression of mass isotopomer distributions. The validity of the approach was tested using labeled glucose standards and carefully prepared mixtures of standards. Our method determines deuterium enrichment of glucose hydrogen atoms with an accuracy of 0.3 mol %, or better, without the use of any calibration curves or correction factors. The analysis requires only 20 μL of plasma, which makes the method applicable for studying gluconeogenesis using deuterated water in cell culture and animal experiments.
,   Conformational transitions in topologically constrained duplex DNA necessarily affect and are affected by other transitional processes throughout the entire molecule. This conformational interdependence of discrete sequences within a given superhelical domain arises through a requisite competition for the free energy of supercoiling. Here we present a generalized statistical mechanical analysis of multiple, competing conformational equilibria in superhelical DNA. This model has been applied, using experimentally determined parameters, to the energetic coupling of two independent B-Z transitions. Specifically, we have monitored the extent of B-Z transition, as a function of negative superhelicity, in topoisomers of a plasmid containing two identical d(C-G)n inserts using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The theoretical results were found to be in good agreement with the experimental data, and we have used this model to predict the competitive behavior of B-Z transitions within sequences differing in length and sequence composition. This competition is shown to have a profound effect upon the B-Z equilibria of those sequences analyzed, resulting in a complex modulation in the extent of Z-DNA formation as a function of negative superhelicity. These theoretical and experimental results show that DNA sequences separated by large distances are capable of communicating structural information.
,   The serpinopathies encompass a large number of diseases caused by inappropriate conformational change and self-association (polymerization) of a serpin (serine proteinase inhibitor) molecule. The most common serpinopathy is alpha(1)-antitrypsin (alpha(1)AT) deficiency, which is associated with an increased risk for liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and early-onset emphysema. The Z variant of alpha(1)AT, which accounts for 95% of all cases of alpha(1)AT deficiency, polymerizes during synthesis and after secretion. Here, we show using intrinsic and extrinsic fluorescence probes that Z alpha(1)AT exists in a non-native conformation. We examined the thermodynamic stability by transverse urea gradient gel electrophoresis, thermal denaturation and equilibrium guanidine hydrochloride unfolding and found that, despite structural differences between the two proteins, wild-type alpha(1)AT and Z alpha(1)AT display similar unfolding pathways and thermodynamic stabilities. Far-UV circular dichroism and bis-ANS (4,4'-dianilino-1,1'-binaphthyl-5,5'-disulfonic acid, dipotassium salt) fluorescence suggest that the intermediate ensembles formed during unfolding of wild-type alpha(1)AT and Z alpha(1)AT are characterized by similar structural features. Kinetic analysis of the unfolding transition showed that Z alpha(1)AT unfolds at least 1.5-fold faster than the wild type. The biological implications of these data are discussed.
,   A differential RNA display approach was used to study the gene expression in zoospores (Z) and germinating cysts (GC) of the late blight pathogen Phytophthora infestans. Four differentially amplified cDNAs were selected and cloned. The clone pGPiZ0.5 showed a 2.7-kb transcript highly expressed in Z. A BLAST search revealed an almost full sequence homology (98%) to the P. infestans mitochondrial large subunit rRNA. Northern blot analysis showed a twofold accumulation of the mitochondrial rRNA (mit rRNA) in Z compared with that of GC and mycelia of P. infestans. The high level of mit rRNA in Z might reflect an increased number of gene copies, an increased rDNA transcription rate, or both. Dot blot experiments indicated that the amount of mitochondrial rDNA (mit rDNA) relative to cytoplasmic rDNA is twofold higher in Z and GC than in mycelia. This relatively elevated mit rDNA could explain the high level of mit rRNA in the zoosporic phase. On the contrary, GC conserves the mit rDNA content, but the level of mit rRNA drops to 50% that of Z. The data are consistent with a very active mitochondrial protein synthesis during zoosporic phase, followed by a rapid down-regulation of mitochondrial activity during cyst formation.
,   Functional consequences of hand contractures may lead to extreme impairment in hand functions so repair of the contractures can solve the problems related to hand functions. Different forms of z plasties have widely been used for the release of scar contractures. In this study, a useful z plasty technique, z advancement rotation flap (ZAR) was adapted for the release of hand contractures in the way of using only local tissues. Fourteen consecutive patients who had hand contractures, were treated successfully with z advancement rotation flap technique. They suffered from hand contractures for at least one year which were localized in wep spaces, flexor surfaces of the digits, first wep space, palmar area and extensor surface of the hand. Contractures are all in mild severity, restricting some of the hand motions moderately. In all patients, hand contractures released completely and clinically normal joint motions were achieved, improving extension, flexion and abduction ranges of fingers without any difficulty. All advanced and rotated flaps healed uneventfully. No major complications appeared such as infection, hematoma, suture dehiscence, flap congestion or necrosis. When dealing with this technique for release of hand contractures, it may offer a versatile alternative to well known z-plasty methods used particularly for hand contractures. 
,   The removal of bisphenol-AF (BPAF) from aqueous solutions onto chitosan-modified zeolite (Ch-Z) in the absence and presence of sodium cholate (NaC) was investigated. It was found that NaC significantly increased the adsorption capacity of Ch-Z for BPAF. At an initial concentration of 100μmol/L, the removal of BPAF by adsorption onto Ch-Z with NaC was more than ninefold higher than without NaC, and the maximum removal was achieved at a Ch-Z dosage of 1g/L with a NaC concentration of 1.68mmol/L. Besides, batch studies were performed to evaluate the effects of various experimental parameters on the removal of BPAF. Kinetic studies and adsorption isotherms indicated that the adsorption process of BPAF onto Ch-Z with NaC could be expressed by a pseudo second-order model and the Freundlich isotherm model, respectively. For the enhanced removal, an interaction mechanism was proposed involving the co-effect of BPAF and NaC adsorbed onto Ch-Z. 
,   Here we report that the odd electron z (*) -type ions formed by the electron-based peptide dissociation methods (electron capture or transfer, ECD or ETD) have distinctive chemical compositions from other common product ion types. Specifically, b-, c-, and y-type ions have an odd number of atoms with an odd valence (e.g., N and H), while z (*)-type ions contain an even number of atoms with an odd valence. This tenet, referred to as the valence parity rule, mandates that no c-type ion shall have the same chemical composition, and by extension mass, as a z (*) -type ion. By experiment we demonstrate that nearly half of all observed c- and z (*) -type product ions resulting from 226 ETD product ion spectra can be assigned to a single, correct, chemical composition and ion type by simple inspection of the m/ z peaks. The assignments provide (1) a platform to directly determine amino acid composition, (2) an input for database search algorithms, or (3) a basis for de novo sequence analysis.
,   Phytochemical analysis of Fijian populations of the green alga Tydemania expeditionis led to the isolation of two unsaturated fatty acids, 3(zeta)-hydroxy-octadeca-4(E),6(Z),15(Z)-trienoic acid (1) and 3(zeta)-hydroxy-hexadeca-4(E),6(Z)-dienoic acid (2), along with the known 3(zeta)-hydroxy-octadeca-4(E),6(Z)-dienoic acid (4). Investigations of the red alga Hydrolithon reinboldii led to identification of a glycolipid, lithonoside (3), and five known compounds, 15-tricosenoic acid, hexacosa-5,9-dienoic methyl ester, beta-sitosterol, 10(S)-hydroxypheophytin A, and 10(R)-hydroxypheophytin A. The structures of 1-3 were elucidated by spectroscopic methods (1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy and ESI-MS). Compounds 1, 2, and 4, containing conjugated double bonds, demonstrated moderate inhibitory activity against a panel of tumor cell lines (including breast, colon, lung, prostate and ovarian cells) with IC(50) values ranging from 1.3 to 14.4 microM. The similar cell selectivity patterns of these three compounds suggest that they might act by a common, but unknown, mechanism of action.
,   Seven synthetic herbivore-induced plant volatiles (HIPVs) and a mixture of nonanal + (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol were field tested for their ability to attract beneficial insects in an open cotton field. Eleven species of the main natural enemies of insect pests in cotton fields were studied. Significantly greater numbers of the ladybird beetle Coccinella septempunctata were trapped on (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate-baited cards than on others that were HIPV baited or the control cards. Erigonidium graminicolum was attracted to traps baited with nonanal, (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate, and methyl salicylate (MeSA). The predatory bug Deraeocoris punctulatus was only attracted to traps baited with octanal. The predatory bug Orius similis responded to traps baited with 3,7-dimethyl,1,3,6-octatriene, nonanal, (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate, nonanal + (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol, and MeSA. Dimethyl octatriene, nonanal + (Z)-3-hexen-1-ol, and octanal significantly attracted the syrphid fly Paragus quadrifasciatus. The ladybird beetle Propylaea japonica, the green lacewing Chrysopa sinica, the bigeyed bug Geocoris pallidipennis, the syrphid fly Epistrophe balteata, and the parasitic wasp Campoletis chlorideae did not respond to any of the HIPVs tested. These results are discussed with regard to the potential of HIPVs as tools for recruiting natural enemies into cotton fields.
,   Recent studies have identified disease-causing mutations in four genes that encode Z-disk proteins. Mutations in myotilin (MYOT), ZASP and filamin C (FLNC) encoding genes cause autosomal dominant myopathy that manifests in adulthood. The clinical features and morphological changes in myopathies caused by mutations in all three genes are highly similar. The disease typically manifests as distal myopathy, but may also affect proximal muscles and the heart. The morphological findings are typical of myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) and include Z-disk alterations and aggregation of dense filamentous material visible in trichrome staining. The disease mechanism is still unclear, but may involve structural alterations of the Z-disk caused by dysfunctional proteins or their abnormal accumulation due to defective degradation. Although the fourth gene product, telethonin, is also involved in the Z-disk organization, its mutations cause a different phenotype. Telethonin mutations result in recessive muscular dystrophy, which manifests in childhood as proximal weakness. The morphologic alterations caused by telethonin mutations are not well characterized, but may share common features of MFM. Future work aims at understanding the pathophysiology of Z-disk related disorders and identification of novel genetic defects in patients with morphological features of MFM.
,   For the first time in the literature, application of a GC-ICP-MS/MS method for the selective and sensitive detection of specific heteroatoms of phosphorus, sulfur, and chlorine has been accomplished. As a proof of concept, organophosphorus, organosulfur, and organochlorine pesticides in various food matrices have been studied. For the detection of organophosphorus and organosulfur pesticides, oxygen was used in the collision reaction cell (CRC) to convert P (m/z 31) to PO(+) (m/z 47) and S (m/z 32) to SO(+) (m/z 48). Similarly, ClH2(+) (m/z 37) was monitored after the reaction of Cl (m/z 35) with hydrogen in the CRC for the determination of organochlorine pesticides. Real food samples (baby food purees, fresh vegetables, loose tea) were screened for their pesticide content, following preparation of triplicate extracts using QuEChERS (quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe). Excellent linearity with correlation coefficients R ≥ 0.997 was achieved, and the lowest detection limits obtained for the organophosphorus, organosulfur, and organochlorine pesticides were 0.0005, 0.675, and 0.144 μg/kg, respectively. 
,   The purification of cooking mutagens depends on the extraordinary sensitivity of the Ames/Salmonella mutagenicity test and its usefulness for tracking the mutagens during the purification steps. Following aqueous/acid (pH 2) extraction of fried ground beef (cooked at 200, 250, or 300 degrees C), XAD-2 column adsorption and elution with acetone, and acidic and basic liquid/liquid extractions, the samples are separated into six distinct peaks with preparative reverse-phase HPLC. A total of nine distinct mutagens can be separated after two additional HPLC steps. These compounds fall into a class of compounds called aminoimidazoazaarenes (AIAs). The majority of the mutagenic activity is made up of MeIQx1 (m/z 213, C11H11N5), DiMeIQx (m/z 227, C12H13N5), trimethylimidazopyridine (TMIP) (m/z 176, C9H12N4) and phenylimidazopyridine (PhIP) (m/z 224, C13H12N4). Smaller contributions are from IQ (m/z 198, C11H10N4), MeIQ (m/z 213, C12H12N4), a nonpolar peak containing oxygen and two unidentified trace polar mutagens. Mass estimates (per kilogram uncooked beef) include: 15 micrograms for PhIP, 1.0 micrograms for MeIQx, 0.5 microgram for DiMeIQx, and 0.02 microgram for IQ. Because of the uncoupling of mutagenic and carcinogenic potencies of these aromatic amines, the PhIP, which contributes the highest mass content to the cooked meat, but has the lowest mutagenic potency, might ultimately make a significant contribution to the carcinogenicity.
,   Human neutrophils incorporated 5-hydroxy-E,Z,Z,Z-6,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (5-HETE) into cellular triglyceride and phospholipid. They also metabolized 5-HETE into a novel, extracellularly released derivative, 5,20-dihydroxy-E,Z,Z,Z-6,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (5,20-diHETE). 5,20-diHETE formation predominated at higher substrate concentrations and longer incubation intervals. In the absence of added 5-HETE, 1 X 10(8) neutrophils stimulated with 20 microM ionophore A23187 produced up to 243 ng of 5,20-diHETE, indicating that both endogenously formed and exogenously added substrate could be oxidized at carbon 20. 5,20-diHETE was about 10- to 100-fold weaker than 5-HETE in enhancing human neutrophil degranulation responses to platelet-activating factor. omega-Oxidation appears to be a general enzymatic mechanism for inactivation of arachidonic acid metabolites.
,   Feeding rats a diet deficient in choline results in fatty liver within 1 d. We studied the effect of short-term (1-3 d) choline deficiency on rat liver Z protein (fatty acid-binding protein). Groups of three females Sprague-Dawley rats were fed ad libitum a purified diet lacking choline and L-methionine or were supplemented with 0.2% choline chloride and 0.82% L-methionine. Animals were killed after 1, 2 or 3 d of consuming control or experimental diets and hepatic Z protein was prepared. Z protein in livers from experimental and control rats were estimated with the fluorescent probe dansylamino undecanoic acid. The corresponding fatty acid-binding activity was also determined. One day of choline-deficient diet increased Z protein concentration threefold, reaching a plateau on the second and third day. Fatty acid-binding activity of Z protein remained unchanged.
,   The left-handed Z-DNA conformation has been observed in crystals made from the self-complementary DNA hexamer d(CACGTG). This is the first time that a non disordered Z form is found in the crystal structure of an alternating sequence containing AT base pairs without methylated or brominated cytosines. The structure has been determined and refined to an agreement factor R = 22.9% using 746 reflections in the resolution in the resolution shell 7 to 2.5 A. The overall shape of the molecule is very similar to the Z-structure of the related hexamer d(CG)3 confirming the rigidity of the Z form. No solvent molecules were detected in the minor groove of the helix near the A bases. The disruption of the spine of hydration in the AT step appears to be a general fact in the Z form in contrast with the B form. The biological relevance of the structure in relation to the CA genome repeats is discussed.
,   To establish the HPLC fingerprint of Zanthoxylum bungeanum and Zanthoxylum schinifolium for finding the difference.ples were extracted with 50% methanol 25 mL by ultrasonic wave and then separated on Hypersil BDS C18 (250 mm x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) column. Gradient elution was carried out with a mobile phase of methanol-water. The detection wavelength was 268 nm, the column temperature was set at 35 degrees C, the flow rate was 1.0 mL/min and the analytic time was 130 min. The software "Similarity Evaluation System for Chromatographic Fingerprint of TCMs" (Version 2004A) was employed to generate the mean chromatogram and carry out the similarity analysis of the samples. SPSS 17.0 was employed to carry out the cluster analysis.ilarity of Z. bungeanum was 0.909 - 0.992 and that of Z. schinifolium was 0.930 - 0.999. There were 27 common peaks in HPLC Fingerprints of Z. bungeanum and 24 in that of Z. schinifolium. Their HPLC standard fingerprints were obvious difference. They belonged to different categories in cluster analysis. method is simple, accurate and rapid. It could obviously distinguish Z. bungeanum from Z. schinifolium. So it suggests that HPLC fingerprints should be one of the quality control indexes of Zanthoxyli Pericarpium.
,   Calpains are ubiquitous neutral cysteine proteases. Although their physiological role has yet to be clarified, calpains seem to be involved in the expression of cell adhesion molecules. Therefore, we hypothesized that a selective calpain inhibitor could attenuate polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocyte-induced myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. We examined the effects of the calpain inhibitor Z-Leu-Leu-CHO in isolated ischemic (20 min) and reperfused (45 min) rat hearts perfused with PMNs. Z-Leu-Leu-CHO (10 and 20 microM, respectively) significantly improved left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP) (P < 0.01) and the maximal rate of development of LVDP (P < 0.01) compared with I/R hearts perfused without Z-Leu-Leu-CHO. In addition, Z-Leu-Leu-CHO significantly reduced PMN adherence to the vascular endothelium and subsequent infiltration into the postischemic myocardium (P < 0.01). Moreover, Z-Leu-Leu-CHO significantly inhibited expression of P-selectin on the rat coronary microvascular endothelium (P < 0.01). These results provide evidence that Z-Leu-Leu-CHO significantly attenuates PMN-mediated I/R injury in the isolated perfused rat heart to a significant extent via downregulation of P-selectin expression.
,   To check whether secular changes exist in growth pattern of caucasic children from the North of Spain up to 2 years of age compared with 25-30 years ago population growth curves.gitudinal study of a representative cohort of caucasic infants born a term in Aragon (n=1.099). Standard deviation scores (z-scores) for weight, length and body mass index (BMI) have been calculated by two available 25-30 years ago population growth curves (Sobradillo et al. and Ferrández et al.).all ages, weight, length and BMI mean z-scores significantly vary depending on the growth standard curve used (p≤0.001). At birth, weight z-score is -0.36 (95%CI:-0.42;-0.30) according to Sobradillo et al. and -0.26 (95%CI:-0.29;0.33) according to Ferrández et al. These differences decreased progressively becoming minimum at 2 years (mean weight z-score -0.08 and -0.05; respectively). At this age, length mean z-score is +0.54 (95%CI:0.48;0.61) according to Sobradillo et al. and +0.19 (95%CI:0.12;0.25) according to Ferrández et al. Mean BMI z-scores of our sample showed lower values than selected standards.rent birth weight of caucasic infants from Northern Spain is lower than in the previous generation. At 2 years of age there is a trend of increasing length, with a similar weight, resulting in lower BMI values.
,   We studied the scope and limitations of a tandem intramolecular Nicholas/Pauson-Khand strategy for the synthesis of tricyclic oxygen- and nitrogen-containing heterocycles. This methodology enables conversion of simple acyclic starting materials into a series of previously unknown heterocyclic architectures. For the preparation of cyclic ethers (Z = O), tricyclic [5,6,5]- through [5,9,5]-systems (m = 1, n = 1-4) are available with the [5,7,5]- and [5,8,5]-systems amenable to quick and efficient synthesis. Tricyclic [5,7,5]- and [5,8,5]-amine-containing (Z = NTs) heterocycles can be successfully prepared. Attempts to make larger ring systems (Z = O, m = 2; Z = O, n = 5; or Z = NTs, n = 4-5) or prepare lactones via Nicholas reactions with carboxylic acid nucleophiles (available via oxidation of alcohol nucleophiles, Z = O) result in decomposition or dimerization. The latter process enables formation of 14-, 16-, and 18-membered ring diolides when using carboxylic acid nucleophiles. We also investigated the use of chiral amine promoters in the Pauson-Khand step but found no asymmetric induction.
,   To study the metabolism of dauricine in vivo and in vitro and identify the structure of its main metabolites, urine of rats after drug administration as the samples of dauricine metabolism in vivo was studied. Rat liver S9 fraction was prepared and the oxygenation metabolism system reconstituted to perform phase I reaction of dauricine in vitro. TLC, HPLC-DAD and MS were used to analyze and identify dauricine and its main phase I metabolites in the samples. The results showed that besides the untransformed dauricine, in the urine samples there was little product of X' which had the same features of TLC, HPLC-DAD and MS as those of N-desmethyl dauricine (N-ddau). Part of dauricine could be transformed to a main metabolite X after incubating with S9 fraction in appropriate conditions. The molecular ion peak of X was m/z 611. The full scan MS2 spectrum of m/z 611 peak from S9 sample were m/z 580, m/z 566, m/z 552, m/z 206, which were same as those of N-ddau. Liver is the major organ for dauricine metabolism and part of dauricine is biotransformed by liver. The major metabolite is considered to be N-ddau.
,   Electronic averaging is currently used for displaying event-related potentials such as P300 from the electroencephalogram (EEG). However, there is a growing need for upgraded methods allowing cognitive components to be identified in single trial brain responses. The Z estimation method has been adapted for the topographic testing of non-averaged scalp recordings. Z values approximating +1 help validate a genuine P300 while failure to pass the Z test may suggest the spurious nature of a late positivity that mimicks a P300. Z testing can also identify interference from transient EEG alpha activity by showing alternations between +1 and -1 values, as expected from an oscillating alpha generator. In contrast with previous methods based on EEG recordings from a single scalp site, our topographic Z method takes into account 28 scalp sites for single trials testing.
,   To each discrete translationally periodic bar-joint framework C in Rd, we associate a matrix-valued function ΦC(Z) defined on the d-torus. The rigid unit mode (RUM) spectrum Ω(C) of C is defined in terms of the multi-phases of phase-periodic infinitesimal flexes and is shown to correspond to the singular points of the function Z → rankΦC(Z) and also to the set of wavevectors of harmonic excitations which have vanishing energy in the long wavelength limit. To a crystal framework in Maxwell counting equilibrium, which corresponds to ΦC(Z) being square, the determinant of ΦC(Z) gives rise to a unique multi-variable polynomial p(C)(Z1, . . . , Zd). For ideal zeolites, the algebraic variety of zeros of pC(Z) on the d-torus coincides with the RUM spectrum. The matrix function is related to other aspects of idealized framework rigidity and flexibility, and in particular leads to an explicit formula for the number of supercell-periodic floppy modes. In the case of certain zeolite frameworks in dimensions two and three, direct proofs are given to show the maximal floppy mode property (order N). In particular, this is the case for the cubic symmetry sodalite framework and some other idealized zeolites.
,   To evaluate bone mineral density (BMD) in children with sickle cell disease (SCD) in the Community of Madrid. BMD was estimated in 40 children with SCD, and with an age range between 3 and 16 years, using densitometry (DXA), as recommended by the International Society for Clinical Densitometry (ISCD). mean age at the time of the study was 7.97±3.95 years, the mean value of the DXA expressed in Z -score was -0.91±1.46 with a range of minimum values - 5.30 and 2.30 maximum. More than half (57.5%) of all the children had normal BMD (Z>-1), 25% had low BMD (Z between -1 and -2), and 17.5% showed an abnormal Z -score values of osteoporosis (Z -score<-2). The Pearson linear correlation was statistically significant between Z -score value and the haemoglobin level (r=0.368, p=.019), finding no correlation with the levels of 25 (OH) vitamin D.spective studies are needed with a larger number of patients to understand the future implications of bone densitometry changes and associated risk factors.
,   Little is known on the long-term effects of obesity intervention programs in preschool-aged children. We compared the long-term effects of a multidisciplinary treatment program with a usual-care program in seventy-five 3- to 5-year-old overweight or obese children who had participated in a randomized controlled clinical trial.ollow-up study collecting data at 18 and 36 months after starting both programs. The multidisciplinary program consisted of diet counseling, exercise sessions teaching motor skills and focusing on an active lifestyle, and psychoeducation for parents. Outcome measures were changes in anthropometry and body composition, determined by bioelectrical impedance analysis and ultrasound.the end of the 16-week treatment program, the multidisciplinary intervention showed a greater decrease in body mass index z score (BMI-z) (mean (SD) 0.2 (0.1)) and waist circumference z score (WC-z) (mean (SD) 0.3 (0.1)), than usual-care. During the 36-month follow-up, a significant overall treatment effect of the multidisciplinary intervention program was demonstrated on BMI-z (0.28, 95% CI 0.03-0.54) and abdominal subcutaneous fat (SCF) (0.23, 95% CI 0.01-0.45), compared with the usual-care program.ultidisciplinary intervention program in 3- to 5-year-old overweight and obese children shows greater long-term effects on reductions in BMI-z and SCF, compared with a usual-care program.
,   Autodisplay, i.e. surface expression of recombinant proteins by virtue of the autotransporter secretion pathway, has been used predominantly with Escherichia coli as host organism, which often limits the applicability of this technique to laboratory purposes and scales. The aim of this study was to investigate if the fermentative bacteria Zymomonas mobilis and Zymobacter palmae, representing attractive candidates for industrial applications, can serve as host organisms for autodisplay. We therefore used the carboxylesterase EstA from Burkholderia gladioli as an autotransporter passenger to display it on the surfaces of Z. palmae and Z. mobilis. Expression and outer membrane localization of the EstA-autotransporter fusion protein were verified by SDS-PAGE, and surface display of the enzyme was demonstrated by ELISA and flow cytometer analysis. Whole-cell activity assays revealed that EstA retained its activity on the cell surface. Recombinant Z. palmae cells exhibited significant higher esterase activity (294mU/mL/OD 1) in comparison to Z. mobilis (88mU/mL/OD 1) and the control E. coli (113mU/mL/OD 1). This appears even more noteworthy, as about 30% of EstA was released from the cell surface of Z. palmae. Nevertheless, our results indicate that both species are suitable autodisplay hosts, in particular Z. palmae for displaying esterase, opening up new horizons for biocatalytic applications. 
,   The Z-curve is a three-dimensional curve that constitutes a unique representation of a DNA sequence, i.e., both the Z-curve and the given DNA sequence can be uniquely reconstructed from the other. We employed Z-curve analysis to identify one replication origin in the Methanocaldococcus jannaschii genome, two replication origins in the Halobacterium species NRC-1 genome and one replication origin in the Methanosarcina mazei genome. One of the predicted replication origins of Halobacterium species NRC-1 is the same as a replication origin later identified by in vivo experiments. The Z-curve analysis of the Sulfolobus solfataricus P2 genome suggested the existence of three replication origins, which is also consistent with later experimental results. This review aims to summarize applications of the Z-curve in identifying replication origins of archaeal genomes, and to provide clues about the locations of as yet unidentified replication origins of the Aeropyrum pernix K1, Methanococcus maripaludis S2, Picrophilus torridus DSM 9790 and Pyrobaculum aerophilum str. IM2 genomes.
,   1. To compare growth parameters of patients with Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH) managed on Prednisolone (PR) before and on Hydrocortisone (HC) after its availability in India. 2. To compare growth parameters of patients with CAH who have been on treatment with HC since diagnosis with patients managed on PR.wth parameters of twelve children (8 m, 4 f) with congenital adrenal hyperplasia were retrospectively studied while on treatment with prednisolone (PR) earlier and then hydrocortisone (HC) after it became freely available in India.ients treated with PR had height Z score of -0.42, weight Z score of - 0.45, and height velocity Z score of -2.06. On HC these scores were -0.27, +0.16 and + 2.27. Patients treated with HC from the begining had a height Z Score of + 0.08, weight Z score of +0.22, and height velocity Z score of +0.68.rocortisone has a less growth effect than prednisolone and patients treated with HC from the beginning showed near normal growth.
,   The efficacy of caspase inhibitors for protecting the cochlea was evaluated in an in vivo study using guinea pigs, as the animal model system. Gentamicin (12 mg/ml) was delivered via an osmotic pump into the cochlear perilymphatic space of guinea pigs at 0.5 microl/h for 14 days. Additional animals were given either z-Val-Ala-Asp (Ome)-fluoromethyl ketone (z-VAD-FMK) or z-Leu-Glu-His-Asp-FMK (z-LEHD-FMK), a general caspase inhibitor and a caspase 9 inhibitor, respectively, in addition to gentamicin. The elevation in auditory brain stem response thresholds, at 4, 7, and 14 days following gentamicin administration, were decreased in animals that received both z-VAD-FMK and z-LEHD-FMK. Cochlear sensory hair cells survived in greater numbers in animals that received caspase inhibitors in addition to gentamicin, whereas sensory hair cells in animals that received gentamicin only were severely damaged. These results suggest that auditory cell death induced by gentamicin is closely related to the activation of caspases in vivo.
,   The effect of fasting on the rate of disappearance from plasma of bromsulphthalein (BSP) and dibromsulphthalein (DBSP), the hepatic content of BSP, and the concentration of ligandin and Z protein, two hepatic organic anion-binding proteins, was studied in the rat. Fasting for 48 h decreased the plasma disappearance of BSP and DBSP and the hepatic content of BSP as well as the amount of ligandin and Z protein. Phenobarbital given prior to fasting partially prevented these changes. A method of quantitation of Z by radioimmunoassay is described. Discrepancies in Z quantiation by dye binding and immunological methods in fasted but not control rats suggest the presence of competitors for organic anion binding to Z in fasting as well as after phenobarbital administration. Results of studies of ligandin turnover during fasting suggest decreased synthesis and increased degradation of the protein. Similar events may be of pathogenetic importance in nonhemolytic unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia observed during fasting in man, horses, and other animals.
,   To examine whether life course adiposity is associated with emotional/behavioral problems in a non-Western developed setting with little social patterning of adiposity.a prospective, population-representative Chinese birth cohort, "Children of 1997," multivariable partial least squares regression was used to assess the adjusted associations of birth weight z-score, body mass index (BMI) z-scores at ages 3 months, 9 months, 3 years, 7 years, 9 years, and BMI z-score changes with emotional/behavioral problems at ∼11 years of age, assessed from the Chinese version of the Revised Parent's Rutter Scales.ter score was available for 4976 (62.8% follow-up). Birth weight z-score, BMI z-scores at ages 3 months, 9 months, 3 years, 7 years, 9 years, and successive BMI z-scores changes had little association with Rutter score or subscores at ∼11 years of age, adjusted for socioeconomic position, although birth weight was negatively associated with specifically hyperactivity.a developed, non-Western setting, we did not find adiposity be a factor in the development of emotional/behavioral problems in early adolescence. Although, we cannot rule out the possibility of residual confounding by genetic or familial factors, our results suggest that the reported associations may be contextually specific rather than biologically based. Whether lower birth weight is associated with hyperactivity in early adolescence needs to be confirmed or refuted in other suitable settings.
,   To determine the psychological and physiological effects of a Laughing Qigong Program on an elderly population in an institutionalized setting.ticipants were recruited from a long-term care institution in northern Taiwan. A total of 99 residents were interviewed and 66 enrolled, there were 33 control participants and 33 experimental participants. The participants were matched according to their abilities as measured by the Barthel Index of Activities for Daily Living. Experimental participants attended the Laughing Qigong Program, twice a week for 4 weeks. Comparisons were made on the Mini-Mental State Examination, Faces Scale, Geriatric Depression Scale and cortisol levels.chometric measures for participants in the experimental group improved, whereas those in the control group decreased. The experimental group showed the following changes: improved Mini-Mental State Examination scores (Z = -2.28; P < 0.05), improved mood states (Z = -4.47; P < 0.001) and decreased Geriatric Depression Scale scores (Z = 3.79; P < 0.001). There were no significant changes for the experimental group in cortisol levels. By comparison, the control group showed: decreased mood states (Z = 2.53; P < 0.011), increased Geriatric Depression Scale scores (Z = 4.34; P < 0.001) and significant increases in cortisol levels (Z = 2.62; P < 0.009). Laughing Qigong Program has shown to be an effective, cost-effective non-pharmacological therapy for cognitive impairment, mood states and elderly depression. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2015; 15: 165-173.
,   A family of quaternary (or pseudoquaternary) antimonides Nb4Pd0.5ZSb2 (Z = Cr, Fe, Co, Ni, Si) containing up to three transition metals in an ordered arrangement has been prepared by reactions of the elements. These antimonides are isostructural, crystallizing as substitutional variants of the W5Si3-type structure (tetragonal, space group -I4/mcm, Z = 4) with unit cell parameters a = 10.4407(3) A and c = 5.0020(2) A for Nb4Pd0.5Cr0.28(3)Si0.72Sb2, a = 10.4825(6) A and c = 4.9543(3) A for Nb4Pd0.5FeSb2, a = 10.4603(5) A and c = 4.9457(3) A for Nb4Pd0.5CoSb2, a = 10.4332(7) A and c = 4.9649(3) A for Nb4Pd0.5Ni0.78(1)Sb2, and a = 10.3895(10) A and c = 4.9634(4) A for Nb4Pd0.5SiSb2. They are distinguished by the filling of interstitial Z atoms into the centers of Nb8 square antiprismatic clusters that are linked by PdSb4 tetrahedra. The Nb8 square antiprisms share opposite square faces to form one-dimensional chains along the c axis so that Z-Z bonding distances of approximately 2.5 A result. Extended Hückel band structure calculations were carried out to interpret the homo- and heteroatomic metal-metal interactions in the structure. The resistivity of one member, Nb4Pd0.5SiSb2, was measured, indicating metallic behavior.
,   Analysis of sex pheromone glands of the apple leafroller Bonagota cranaodes Meyrick by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry or electroantennographic detection showed the presence of 14 structurally related acetates and alcohols of the chain length 10-18, including the main pheromone component (E,Z)-3,5-dodecadienyl acetate (E3,Z5-12Ac). Male antennae responded to the main compound, its Z,Z isomer, (E,Z) -3,5-tetradecadienyl acetate (E3,Z5-14Ac), and the monoenes (Z)-5-dodecenyl acetate (Z5-12Ac) and (Z)-9-hexadecenyl acetate (Z9-16Ac). Traps baited with a four-component blend of E3,Z5-12Ac, Z5-12Ac, E3,Z5-14Ac, and Z9-16Ac in a 100:5:5:100 ratio were significantly more attractive than the main compound alone. This improved trap lure is more suitable for monitoring population densities of B. cranaodes, and for detection of the onset of the seasonal flight period. A more complete pheromone blend is of importance also with respect to current attempts to develop mating disruption for control of this major pest of apple in Brazil.
,   FtsZ, a bacterial homolog of tubulin, is well established as forming the cytoskeletal framework for the cytokinetic ring. Recent work has shown that purified FtsZ, in the absence of any other division proteins, can assemble Z rings when incorporated inside tubular liposomes. Moreover, these artificial Z rings can generate a constriction force, demonstrating that FtsZ is its own force generator. Here we review light microscope observations of how Z rings assemble in bacteria. Assembly begins with long-pitch helices that condense into the Z ring. Once formed, the Z ring can transition to short-pitch helices that are suggestive of its structure. FtsZ assembles in vitro into short protofilaments that are ∼30 subunits long. We present models for how these protofilaments might be further assembled into the Z ring. We discuss recent experiments on assembly dynamics of FtsZ in vitro, with particular attention to how two regulatory proteins, SulA and MinC, inhibit assembly. Recent efforts to develop antibacterial drugs that target FtsZ are reviewed. Finally, we discuss evidence of how FtsZ generates a constriction force: by protofilament bending into a curved conformation.
,   Rutherford backscattering of energetic particles can be used to determine the thickness of a coating of a low-Z material over a heavier substrate. Simulations indicate that 5 MeV alpha particles from an (241)Am source can be used to measure the thickness of a Li coating on Mo tiles between 0.5 and 15 μm thick. Using a 0.1 mCi source, a thickness measurement can be accomplished in 2 h of counting. This technique could be used to measure any thin, low-Z material coating (up to 1 mg/cm(2) thick) on a high-Z substrate, such as Be on W, B on Mo, or Li on Mo. By inserting a source and detector on a moveable probe, this technique could be used to provide an in situ measurement of the thickness of Li coating on NSTX-U Mo tiles. A test stand with an alpha source and an annular solid-state detector was used to investigate the measurable range of low-Z material thicknesses on Mo tiles. 
,   To investigate the structural basis of triboluminescence, several known tetrahedrally coordinated Mn(II) complexes have been synthesized according to literature methods and their crystal structures have been determined by X-ray diffraction. Among them, (MePh(3)P)(2)[MnCl(4)] (2), a = 15.4804(4) A, cubic, space group P2(1)3, Z = 4; (Et(4)N)(2)[MnBr(4)] (4), a = 13.362(1) A, c = 14.411(1) A, tetragonal, space group P42(1)m, Z = 4; MnBr(2)(OPPh(3))(2) (7), a = 9.974(1) A, b = 10.191(3) A, c = 10.538(2) A, alpha = 65.32(1) degrees, beta = 63.49(1) degrees, gamma = 89.44(2) degrees, triclinic, space group P1, Z = 1; and MnBr(2)(OAsPh(3))(2) (10), a = 17.816(3) A, b = 10.164(1) A, c = 18.807(3) A, orthorhombic, space group Pca2(1), Z = 4 were reported to be triboluminescent and (Me(4)N)(2)[MnCl(4)] (3), a = 9.016(3) A, b = 36.90(2) A, c = 15.495(3) A, beta = 90.72(3) degrees, monoclinic, space group P2(1)/n, Z = 12, and MnI(2)(OAsPh(3))(2) (11), a = 10.094(4) A, b = 10.439(2) A, c = 34.852(2) A, alpha = 83.17(4) degrees, beta = 86.09(2) degrees, gamma = 75.16(3) degrees, triclinic, space group P1, Z = 4, were reported to be not triboluminescent. The result supports the correlation between space group acentricity and triboluminescence activity.
,   The mechanism underlying the development of tolerance to morphine is still incompletely understood. Morphine binds to opioid receptors, which in turn activates downstream second messenger cascades through heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). In this paper, we show that G(z), a member of the inhibitory G protein family, plays an important role in mediating the analgesic and lethality effects of morphine after tolerance development. We blocked signaling through the G(z) second messenger cascade by genetic ablation of the alpha subunit of the G protein in mice. The Galpha(z) knockout mouse develops significantly increased tolerance to morphine, which depends on Galpha(z) gene dosage. Further experiments demonstrate that the enhanced morphine tolerance is not caused by pharmacokinetic and behavioural learning mechanisms. The results suggest that G(z) signaling pathways are involved in transducing the analgesic and lethality effects of morphine following chronic morphine treatment.
,   We report here that a cubane-like europium-L-aspartic acid complex at physiological pH can discriminate between DNA structures as judged by the comparison of thermal denaturation, binding stoichiometry, temperature-dependent fluorescence enhancement, and circular dichroism and gel electrophoresis studies. This complex can selectively stabilize non-B-form DNA polydApolydT but destabilize polydGdCpolydGdC and polydAdTpolydAdT. Further studies show that this complex can convert B-form polydGdCpolydGdC to Z-form under the low salt condition at physiological temperature 37 degrees C, and the transition is reversible, similar to RNA polymerase, which turns unwound DNA into Z-DNA and converts it back to B-DNA after transcription. The potential uses of a left-handed helix-selective probe in biology are obvious. Z-DNA is a transient structure and does not exist as a stable feature of the double helix. Therefore, probing this transient structure with a metal-amino acid complex under the low salt condition at physiological temperature would provide insights into their transitions in vivo and are of great interest.
,   A significant contributor to artefact generation in surface electromyography (sEMG) and, functional electrical stimulation (FES) intensity is the skin-to-electrode impedance (Z(S/E)). While using electrolytic gels may initially lower Z(S/E), the impedance may not remain stable. It can vary over time due to changes in underlying structures such as sweat glands and physical deformations due to movements. An experiment seeking to identify major factors in the reduction of Z(S/E), and therefore mitigate these artefacts, was performed by varying a series of control factors on the concentric ring electrode (CRE). Unlike conventional disc electrodes, CREs have small surface areas which may exacerbate Z(S/E) changes. The factors tested were electrode material, electrode size, skin preparation, and surface pressure. This work analyzes how these factors in their various combinations effect changes in Z(S/E) and suggests protocols for improving recording or stimulation with CREs via lowered and consistent Z(S/E).
,   In premature infants, theophylline is converted to caffeine, and the biological half-life is prolonged. To assess the metabolic alterations of theophylline during development of premature infants, a sensitive and simple method was developed which quantitated all theophylline metabolites in plasma, urine, and red blood cells. Theophylline and its metabolites in the sample were converted to the N-propyl derivative using n-propyl iodide in dimethylformamide with potassium carbonate catalysis and were analyzed under isothermal conditions on a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer with a 3% methylsilicone-phenylsilicone column. Deuterated caffeine (caffeine-d3) was used as the internal standard. A selected ion-monitoring technique, together with 70-eV electron impact ionization mode, was used. The ion current ratios between caffeine-d3 (m/z 197) and caffeine (m/z 194), theophylline (m/z 222), 3-methylxanthine (m/z 250), 1,3-dimethyluric acid (m/z 280), and 1-methyluric acid (m/z 308) were monitored. The total analysis time was 12 min with a detection limit ranging from 500 pg to 10 ng, depending on the metabolites. With this sensitivity, sample sizes of 50-100 microliters of plasma and 0.5 ml of urine were sufficient for the analysis of all theophylline metabolites. The coefficient of variation of this method was less than 5% for the analysis of biological samples.
,   Acceptance of toxicity bioassays as effective analytical tools in environmental areas needs guarantees of standardization but also validation. Ten European laboratories took part in an inter-laboratory study using different commercial devices based on bioluminescence inhibition of bacteria Vibrio fischeri. Reproducibility and stability by short toxicity endpoints, effective concentration that gives 10%, 50% and 80% of inhibition (EC(10), EC(50) and EC(80)) is evaluated. Parametric and non-parametric statistic is applied and performance of participant laboratories is addressed by z-scores calculated by non-parametric statistic. z-Score classification was based on harmonised protocol for proficiency testing of analytical laboratories (satisfactory |z|< or =2; questionable 2<|z|< or =3; unsatisfactory |z|>3). Tested samples were phenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol and influent wastewater. Based on z-score classification, more than 70% of the laboratories showed a satisfactory performance for phenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol and influent wastewater (86%, 90% and 70%, respectively). Reproducibility and stability was observed in toxicant references and in wastewater samples. EC(80) determination appears to be more robust that EC(10) and EC(50). EC determinations can be considered favorable at 5 and 15 min of exposition, in particular for EC(80). The use of different commercial devices can not be considered an additional source of variation.
,   An anti-Z-DNA IgG antibody was used to probe for the left-handed Z-DNA conformation of a d(CG)11 insert in a negatively supercoiled plasmid DNA (pAN022). The complexes were spread on mica in the presence of a quaternary ammonium detergent benzyldimethylalkylammonium chloride and imaged with a scanning force microscope (SFM). The high affinity anti-Z-DNA antibody was retained even after restriction endonuclease cleavage of the DNA. The two arms in the product molecules had unequal lengths in conformity with the known location of the Z-DNA forming insert. Most complexes exhibited one IgG per DNA molecule. The bound antibodies were up to approximately 35 nm in diameter and extended approximately 2 nm from the mica surface. They were generally in a lateral orientation relative to the DNA, in accordance with prior chemical modification experimental data indicating a bipedal mode of binding for an anti-Z-DNA IgG. However, the SFM images also suggest that the DNA bends to accommodate the two Fab combining regions of the antibody. This study demonstrates the utility of the SFM for investigating conformation-dependent molecular recognition.
,   We studied the localization of desmin (skeletin), the major subunit of muscle-type intermediate filaments, by high resolution immunoelectron microscopy in adult chicken skeletal muscle. Immunoferritin labeling of ultrathin frozen sections of intact fixed sartorius muscle showed the presence of desmin between adjacent Z-bands and as strands peripheral to Z-bands, forming apparent connections between the Z-bands with adjacent sarcolemma, mitochondria, and nuclei. We observed no desmin labeling, however, in the vicinity of the T-tubules. In addition, intermediate filaments were morphologically discernible at the level of the Z-bands in plastic sections of glycerol-extracted muscle that had been infused with unlabeled antidesmin antibodies. Our results indicate that the desmin present in adult skeletal muscle, that had previously been detected by immunofluorescence light microscopy, is largely if not entirely in the form of intermediate filaments. The results provide evidence that these filaments serve to interconnect myofibrils at the level of their Z-bands, and to connect Z-bands with other specific structures and organelles in the myotube, but not with the T-tubule system.
,   The stability of lycopene in an olive oil/tomato emulsion during thermal processing (80-140 °C) was studied. Initially, the degradation of total lycopene (all-E plus Z-forms) occurred quickly at temperatures above 100 °C. However, a nonzero plateau value, depending on the processing temperature, was attained after longer treatment times. Besides degradation, the isomerization of total-Z-lycopene as well as the individual isomerization of all-E-, 5-Z-, 9-Z-, and 13-Z-lycopene was studied in detail. After prolonged heating, the isomer conversion reached a temperature-dependent equilibrium state. The degradation of total lycopene and the isomerization could be described by a fractional conversion model. The temperature dependency of the corresponding reaction rate constants was quantified by the Arrhenius equation. The activation energy of degradation was estimated to be 28 kJ/mol, and the activation energy of overall (all-E and total-Z) isomerization was estimated to be 52 kJ/mol.
,   Identity is a transitive relation, according to all standard accounts. Necessarily, if x=y and y=z, then x=z. However, people sometimes say that two objects, x and z, are the same as a third, y, even when x and z have different properties (thus, x=y and y=z, but x≠z). In the present experiments, participants read stories about an iceberg that breaks into two icebergs, one to the east and the other to the west. Many participants (32-54%, in baseline conditions across experiments) decided that both successors were the original iceberg, despite the different spatial locations of the successors. Experiment 1 shows that this tendency is not due to participants failing to understand both to mean both are simultaneously the original. Similarly, Experiment 2 demonstrates that the tendency is not solely due to their interpreting the question to be about properties of the icebergs rather than about the icebergs themselves. Experiments 3 and 4 suggest, instead, that participants may understand Which is the original? to mean Which, in its own right, is entitled to be the original? Emphasizing entitlement increases the number of seemingly intransitive responses, whereas emphasizing the formal properties of identity decreases them.
,   Olefin metathesis has emerged as a promising strategy for modulating the stability and activity of biologically relevant compounds; however, the ability to control olefin geometry in the product remains a challenge. Recent advances in the design of cyclometalated ruthenium catalysts has led to new strategies for achieving such control with high fidelity and Z selectivity, but the scope and limitations of these catalysts on substrates bearing multiple functionalities, including peptides, remained unexplored. Herein, we report an assessment of various factors that contribute to both productive and nonproductive Z-selective metathesis on peptides. The influence of sterics, side-chain identity, and preorganization through peptide secondary structure are explored by homodimerization, cross metathesis, and ring-closing metathesis. Our results indicate that the amino acid side chain and identity of the olefin profoundly influence the activity of cyclometalated ruthenium catalysts in Z-selective metathesis. The criteria set forth for achieving high conversion and Z selectivity are highlighted by cross metathesis and ring-closing metathesis on diverse peptide substrates. The principles outlined in this report are important not only for expanding the scope of Z-selective olefin metathesis to peptides but also for applying stereoselective olefin metathesis in general synthetic endeavors. 
,   The vestigial (Vg) mutant is a Z-linked mutant that causes vestigial wings in the silkworm, Bombyx mori. We have previously reported a 1.5-Mb interstitial deletion on the Z chromosome bearing the Vg mutation (Z(Vg) chromosome). In this study, we found that exons 3-8 of a gene named Bmptp-Z encoding a putative tyrosine-specific protein phosphatase are deleted by the 1.5-Mb interstitial deletion. We found that a gene encoding the Bombyx homolog of Drosophila Apterous (BmAp-A) protein is located 4.5 kb downstream of the distal breakpoint of the 1.5-Mb interstitial deletion. Moreover, an in-frame fusion transcript composed of the 5' part of Bmptp-Z and the 3' part of Bmap-A is generated specific to the Z(Vg) chromosome. Effects of the in-frame fusion transcript on the vestigial phenotype are discussed.
,   The DNA sequence encoding the leader peptide of the lantibiotic subtilin from Bacillus subtilis was fused to the sequence encoding pronisin Z, and this hybrid gene was expressed in a Lactococcus lactis strain that produces nisin A. This strain simultaneously secreted nisin A and a protein of approximately 6 kDa. Amino acid sequencing of the purified 6 kDa protein and structural analysis of its main tryptic fragment by two-dimensional 1H-NMR showed that it consists of the unmodified leader peptide of subtilin, without the N-terminal methionine residue, linked to a fully matured nisin Z part. The hybrid protein and its main tryptic fragment [ITPQ]-nisin Z, showed at least 200-fold lower antimicrobial activities than nisin Z against three different indicator strains.
,   Growth and nutritional status of children and adults in two Mbyá-Guaraní communities from Argentina, was assessed. Height, weight, sitting height, upper arm circumference, triceps and subscapular skinfold were measured on 120 individuals aged from 2 to 60 between March and May, 2001. Data were transformed to z-scores using United States references (NHANES I and NHANES II). A z-score of less than -2 was used as the cut-off point to determine the prevalence of stunting and wasting respectively. Mean z-scores for weight, height, and upper arm circumference lie below the reference (0 > Z > -3), while in sitting height ratio and muscular area for females they were above the US standard (0 < Z < 2). Skinfold thicknesses and muscular area for males were similar to the reference (2 > Z > -1). Our findings are in agreement with others South American Indian research that the prevalence of stunting (36.7%) is significantly higher than wasting (1.8%). The presence of parasitic infections and nutritional environment previously described in this population could be related to the short stature.
,   Some plants tolerate tissue dehydration. Dehydration conditions suppress photosynthesis, exacerbating photooxidative stress. In this study, fern samples were collected from the field, desiccated in darkness, and subsequently re-watered. During dark dehydration, zeaxanthin (Z) was formed and maximal photochemical efficiency of PS II was strongly reduced. Rehydration in the dark reversed these effects. Violaxanthin de-epoxidase was responsible for the dark formation of Z as illustrated by its complete inhibition by DTT. Nonetheless, its activity was not affected by nigericin, indicating that Z formation in the dark could be a process independent of the transmembrane pH-gradient into the thylakoids. Synthesis de novo of Z was rejected after blocking carotenogenesis with norfluorazon. Dark formation of Z was also observed in dehydrating leaves of desiccation-intolerant plants, which seems to indicate that this is a phenomenon scattered among different taxa within the plant kingdom. Plants may trigger this mechanism during dehydration, for chlorophyll protection during desiccation, and for faster acclimation when rehydrating conditions return. Violaxanthin de-epoxidation to form Z is typically a light-dependent process, but the formation induced solely by dehydration might represent an anticipatory mechanism for preventing early morning photodamage in desiccation-tolerant plants such as the fern Ceterach officinarum.
,   Prior ion-mobility mass-spectrometry (IMS-MS) studies of polyethylene glycol (PEG) ions have identified only two out of many sharply different observed structures: Linear shapes with several individually solvated singly charged cations at high charge states z (beads on a string), and single multiply charged globules at low z. The present study is devoted to assign all other existing structures of PEG ions, for the first time reaching masses of 100 kDa and charge states up to z = 10. There are at most z different structures at charge state z. All involve a single globule carrying n charges, tied to one or several appendices bearing z - n separate charges in a beads-on-a-string configuration. All sharp shape transitions observed at decreasing ion mass involve ejection of one elementary charge (sometimes two) from the shrinking globule into the growing linear appendage. This picture is supported by molecular dynamics simulations and approximate calculations of electrical mobilities for computed structures.
,   The polymorphism of two 2-X-adamantane derivatives, X = Cl, X = Br, has been studied by X-ray powder diffraction and normal- and high-pressure (up to 300 MPa) differential scanning calorimetry. 2-Br-adamantane displays a low-temperature orthorhombic phase (space group P212121, Z = 4) and a high-temperature plastic phase (Fm3̅m, Z = 4) from 277.9 ± 1.0 K to the melting point at 413.4 ± 1.0 K. 2-Cl-adamantane presents a richer polymorphic behavior through the temperature range studied. At low temperature it displays a triclinic phase (P1̅, Z = 2), which transforms to a monoclinic phase (C2/c, Z = 8) at 224.4 ± 1.0 K, both phases being ordered. Two high-temperature orientationally disordered are found for this compound, one hexagonal (P63/mcm, Z = 6) at ca. 241 K and the highest one, cubic (Fm3̅m, Z = 4), being stable from 244 ± 1.0 K up to the melting point at 467.5 ± 1.0 K. No additional phase appears due to the increase in pressure within the studied range. The intermolecular interactions are found to be weak, especially for the 2-Br-adamantane compound for which the Br···Br as well as C-Br···H distances are larger than the addition of the van der Waals radii, thus confirming the availability of this compound for building up diamondoid blocks. 
,   Excessive cephalocaudal anatomic (Z-axis) coverage can lead to unnecessary radiation exposure to a patient. In this study, an automated computing model was developed for identifying instances of potentially excessive Z-axis coverage with abdomen-pelvis examinations. Eight patient and imaging attributes including patient gender, age, height, weight, volume CT dose index (CTDIvol), dose length product (DLP), maximum abdomen width, and maximum abdomen thickness were used to build a feedforward neural network model to predict a target Z-axis coverage whether it is an excessive or non-excessive Z-axis coverage scans. 264 CT abdomen-pelvis exams were used to develop the model which is validated using 10-fold cross validation. The result showed that 244 out of 264 exams (92.4 %) correctly predicted Z-axis excessive coverage. The promising results indicate that this tool has the potential to be used for CT exams of the chest and colon, urography, and other site-specified CT studies having defined limited length. 
,   To investigate possible causes of micromotion in distal femoral prosthesis.ed on the assumption that the femur and prosthesis were considered as concentric cylinders with completely bonded interface, a theoretical model simulating the interfacial stress transfer was established. The distributions of the interfacial shear and radial stresses with the changing of z were obtained through mathematics and mechanics deducing. maximum interfacial shear stress occurred at the position of z=0, namely, the cross section of the femur neck. The interfacial shear stress sharply decreased with the increasing of z and came to nearly zero at the range of z> 0.1 m. While the interfacial radial stress increased with the increasing of z,at the range of z >0.05 m it was constant and reached the maximum. micromotion in distal prosthesis is caused by the interfacial radial stress.
,   Prolyl endopeptidase (PEP; EC 3.4.21.26) cleaves the Pro-Arg bond of arginine-vasopressin (AVP). This study investigated the effects of PEP inhibitors, 1-[1-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-prolyl]prolinal (Z-Pro-prolinal) and 1-[3-(2-indanylacetyl)-L-thioprolyl]pyrrolidine (Z-321), on the AVP content in the septum of rats. Oral administration of Z-Pro-prolinal (100 mg/kg) and Z-321 (100 mg/kg) significantly increased the septal AVP content. At 10 mg/kg, Z-321 slightly increased the content. In contrast, the D-thioprolyl form of Z-321 (100 mg/kg), which lacks an inhibitory effect on the enzyme, failed to affect the AVP content. These results indicate that PEP inhibitors increase the content of AVP through inhibition of the enzyme activity in vivo. Therefore, it is suggested that PEP may contribute to the degradation of endogenous AVP in the brain.
,   The effects of oxytocin (OXT) and of dipeptides derived from the C-terminal portion of oxytocin (Z-prolyl-leucine and Z-prolyl-D-leucine) on the development of acute and chronic tolerance to, and dependence on morphine were tested in the mouse. Oxytocin and the dipeptides attenuated the development of acute and chronic tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine and delayed the onset of the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome. Both oxytocin and Z-prolyl-D-leucine affected drug-induced behavioural responses related to dopamine (DA) in the brain. Thus, oxytocin potentiated the hypermotility induced by a large dose of apomorphine and decreased the supersensitivity of the DA receptors. Small doses of Z-prolyl-D-leucine inhibited the hypomotility elicited by a small dose of apomorphine and potentiated the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine. The data indicate that both oxytocin and Z-prolyl-D-leucine affect tolerance to and dependence on morphine. While oxytocin interacts mainly with postsynaptic DA-ergic neuronal elements, the dipeptide primarily affects DA-ergic neurotransmission at the presynaptic level.
,   A number of carbobenzoxy-dipeptide-amides raise the bilayer to hexagonal phase transition temperature of dielaidoylphosphatidylethanolamine (stabilizes the bilayer). The potency of the peptides in stabilizing the bilayer phase is Z-Tyr-Leu-NH2 = Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 greater than Z-Ser-Leu-NH2 greater than Z-Gly-Leu-NH2 greater than Z-Gly-Gly-NH2. A linear correlation was found between the respective HPLC retention time parameter k' for the peptide and the slope of the bilayer stabilization curve determined with model membranes by differential scanning calorimetry. One dipeptide, Z-Ser-Leu-NH2, reduces measles virus cytopathic effect (CPE) in Vero cells. The mechanism by which this peptide reduces the CPE is not known, although some peptides which raise the bilayer to hexagonal phase transition temperature of phospholipids inhibit membrane fusion.
,   This study was performed to investigate the mechanisms of in vivo acquisition of colistin resistance in A. baumannii during colistin treatment. Three colistin-susceptible/resistant pairs of A. baumannii were recovered from patients who underwent colistin treatment. All of the 6 isolates included in this study shared an identical sequence type (ST), ST375, and they showed identical SmaI-macrorestriction patterns by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. The individual colistin-resistant isolates harbored distinct mutations in the pmrB gene. Mutations detected in the pmrB gene were Ala227Val, Pro233Ser, and frame shift from Phe26. In matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight analysis, colistin-resistant isolates were different from their colistin-susceptible counterparts, and they showed additional distinct peaks at 1852 m/z, 1937 m/z, 1954 m/z, 1975 m/z, 2034 m/z, and 2157 m/z. In vivo selection of colistin-resistant A. baumannii occurred independently in strains of ST357 during colistin treatment, and the strains acquired colistin resistance via mutations in the pmrB gene resulting in modification of lipid A components. 
,   In bacteria, the Min system plays a role in positioning the midcell division site by inhibiting the formation of the earliest precursor of cell division, the Z ring, at the cell poles. However, whether the Min system also contributes to establishing the precise placement of the midcell Z ring is unresolved. We show that the Z ring is positioned at midcell with a high degree of precision in Bacillus subtilis, and this is completely maintained in the absence of the Min system. Min is therefore not required for correct midcell Z ring placement in B. subtilis. Our results strongly support the idea that the primary role of the Min system is to block Z ring formation at the cell poles and that a separate mechanism must exist to ensure cell division occurs precisely at midcell.
,   A soil microorganism identified as Bacillum megaterium was found to produce several antibiotics substances after growth for 20 h at 37 degrees C in a mineral culture medium. Analysis both by electron spray ionization (ESI) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) identified these substances as lipopeptides. Predominant peaks at m/z 1,041 and m/z 1,065 revealed ions which are compatible with surfactins and lichenysins, respectively. Two other ions m/z 1,057 and m/z 1,464 were further studied by collision-induced dissociation (CID) unveiling an iturin A at the first and fengycins A and B at the second m/z peaks. The CID spectrum of the m/z 1,464 ion also suggests the existence of fengycins A and B variants in which Ile was changed to Val in the position 10 of the peptide moiety. Raw mixtures of all these compounds were also assayed for antibiotic features. The data enlighten the unusual diversity of the lipopeptide mixture produced by a sole Bacillus species.
,   To evaluate the relationship between body size and depressive symptoms, as well as the moderating effects of age, sex, and socioeconomic status (SES), in a sample of young adolescents. study group comprised 678 young adolescents (age 11 to 14 years). Body mass index (BMI) z scores were used to estimate body size. Depression symptoms were assessed using the Children's Depression Inventory (CDI). The spline function was used to examine the shape of the relationship between BMI z score and depressive symptoms.the total sample, CDI scores were lowest for BMI z scores between -1 and -0.5. CDI scores increased progressively for BMI z scores > 0. In boys, CDI scores increased for BMI z scores > 2, whereas in girls, CDI scores increased for BMI z scores > -0.5 and < -1. Age did not have a significant moderating effect. SES had a moderating effect only in boys (P = .011). relationship between body size and depressive symptoms in young adolescents is curvilinear and is moderated by sex. Heavier-than-average and underweight girls, as well as obese boys, had the highest depression scores.
,   E-Z Gold is a new direct filling gold material that is similar to existing powdered gold formulations but more user-friendly. It is a mixture of pure gold powder and wax (less than 0.01% organic wax), wrapped in gold foil introduced to the dental profession in the late 1980s, and similar metallurgically to gold foil and powdered gold (Goldent) in that, when properly and thoroughly compacted, it has comparable properties: inertness (biocompatibility) and permanence. E-Z Gold's manipulative characteristics are similar to that of a very stiff amalgam, yet more sticky (cohesive) than gold foil, hence the name E-Z Gold. There is no reported research related to physical properties regarding shear, tensile, and cohesive strength. One can assume that E-Z Gold is similar to old Goldent but with improved softness and working characteristics. Clinical experience in the use of this new restorative direct filling gold material has been encouraging. We anticipate that in the near future, clinical and laboratory research comparing this gold to other types of direct filling golds will be forthcoming.
,   The energetics of the B-Z transition of two different types of cloned alternating purine/pyrimidine DNA sequences have been analysed by a two dimensional electrophoretic technique. Since the transition between right handed and left handed forms of these polymers is detected by alterations of electrophoretic mobilities of topoisomers of the plasmid DNA molecules, the method is not dependent on Z-DNA binding ligands. The measurements reflect intrinsic properties of the DNA unperturbed by the free energy of binding such a ligand. Direct evidence from the analysis of topoisomer distributions is presented which shows that d(GC)n.d(GC)n sequence elements within an E. coli plasmid will adopt a Z conformation in-vivo under conditions of blocked protein synthesis. Evidence for the in-vivo occurrence of Z-DNA was not detected in plasmid DNA isolated from bacterial cells growing in the absence of protein synthesis inhibitors. A model is proposed for a function for the B-Z transition in ensuring the correct pairing of homologous chromosomes during meiosis.
,   Eleven compounds structurally similar to known lepidopterous pheromone components were identified in the extract from 18 calling female moths ofEuxoa drewseni (Staudinger). The identifications were done by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-resolution gas chromatography with flame ionization and electroantennographic detectors simultaneously. Detector antennae were from five species of moths. In the field, male moths were specifically attracted to a three-component blend of dodecyl, (Z)-5-dodecenyl, and (Z)-7-tetradecenyl acetates in a ratio of 2∶6∶1. This blend at 1000 μg/rubber septum dispenser is recommended as a trap bait for monitoring purposes. Low concentrations of (Z)-7-dodecenyl acetate or (Z)-7-tetradecenol inhibited the attraction of moths to the three-component blend. (Z)-7-Pentadecenyl acetate functioned as a parapheromone in place of (Z)-7-tetradecenyl acetate in the pheromone blend, and they appear to react via the same antennal receptor. 
,   Two Helicoverpa species, H. armigera and H. assulta use (Z)-11-hexadecenal and (Z)-9-hexadecenal as their sex attractant pheromone components but in opposite ratios. Since both female and male interspecific hybrids produced by female H. assulta and male H. armigera have been obtained in our laboratory, we can make a comparative study of sex pheromone composition and biosynthesis in the two species and their hybrid. With GC and GC-MS analyses using single gland extracts, the ratio of (Z)-9-hexadecenal to (Z)-11-hexadecenal was determined as 2.1:100 in H. armigera, and 1739:100 in H. assulta. The hybrid has a ratio of 4.0: 100, which is closer to that of H. armigera, but significantly different from H. armigera. We investigated pheromone biosynthesis with labeling experiments, using various fatty acid precursors in H. armigera, H. assulta and the hybrid. In H. armigera, (Z)-11-hexadecenal is produced by delta11 desaturation of palmitic acid, followed by reduction and terminal oxidation; (Z)-9-hexadecenal results from delta11 desaturation of stearic acid, followed by one cycle of chain shortening, reduction and terminal oxidation. delta11 desaturase is the unique desaturase for the production of the two pheromone components. In our Chinese strain of H. assulta, palmitic acid is used as the substrate to form both the major pheromone component, (Z)-9-hexadecenal and the minor one, (Z)-11-hexadecenal. Our data suggest that delta9 desaturase is the major desaturase, and delta11 desaturase is responsible for the minor component in H. assulta, which is consistent with previous work. However, the weak chain shortening acting on (Z)-9 and (Z)-11-octadecenoic acid, which is present in the pheromone glands, does occur in this species to produce (Z)-7 and (Z)-9-hexadecenoic acid. In the hybrid, the major pheromone component, (Z)-11-hexadecenal is produced by delta11 desaturation of palmitic acid, followed by reduction and terminal oxidation. The direct fatty acid precursor of the minor component, (Z)-9-hexadecenoic acid is mainly produced by delta9 desaturation of palmitic acid, but also by delta11 desaturation of stearic acid and one cycle of chain shortening. The greater relative amounts of (Z)-9-hexadecenal in the hybrid are due to the fact that both palmitic and stearic acids are used as substrates, whereas only stearic acid is used as substrate in H. armigera. The evolutionary relationships between the desaturases in several Helicoverpa species are also discussed in this paper.
,   High bone mineral density (BMD) is currently not defined by the International Society for Clinical Densitometry with a specific Z-score cutoff; however, it has been suggested that a Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5 is not normal. Institutional Review Board approval was obtained. We evaluated a University dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry database over the previous 24 mo to define Z-score distributions. A Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5 was selected as the outcome event of interest in a logistic regression for adjusted odds ratio. The covariates were height; weight; body mass index (BMI); gender; menopausal status; use of female hormones; presence of insufficiency fractures after 50 yr of age; previous fractures; previous surgeries (back surgeries, vertebroplasty, or kyphoplasty); transplant history; presence of long-term chronic conditions (asthma, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, or cystic fibrosis); eating disorder; current use of glucocorticoids; smoking status; and current and past use of osteoporosis pharmacological therapies. The study included a total of 8216 patients; 7212 (87.8%) were females, and 1044 (12.2%) were males. In the total population, 13.6% had a Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5 at the lumbar spine, femoral neck, or total hip. Only 0.2% of the males and 0.8% of the females had a Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5 at all 3 sites. The 97.5th percentiles for Z-scores in our population for men and women, respectively, were 3.4 and 3.9 at the lumbar spine, 1.5 and 2.1 at the femoral neck, and 1.6 and 2.2 at the total hip. The 99th percentile for Z-scores for men and women, respectively, were 4.9 and 4.7 at the lumbar spine, 2.4 and 2.7 at the femoral neck, and 2.2 and 2.7 at the total hip. At the lumbar spine, female gender and weight were found to be risk factors for a high Z-score (≥ 2.5). The use of glucocorticoids, bone-active medications, BMI, and smoking were significantly less likely to predict a lumbar spine Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5. A high total-hip Z-score is predicted by increasing weight, whereas those patients using bone-active medications were less likely to have high BMD at the total hip. At the femoral neck, there were no significant risk factors related to a Z-score greater than or equal to 2.5; those taking bone-active medications were significantly less likely to have a high Z-score. These data suggest that a high Z-score is common at 1 or more sites. Further research about the criteria for the diagnosis of high BMD is warranted.
,   Many older individuals suffer from difficulty initiating and maintaining sleep, and consequently use hypnosedative medication. The use of sleeping tablets, usually benzodiazepines (BZs) and the newer Z drugs such as zolpidem, is largely unnecessary and problematic since their efficacy is not maintained over an extended period of time and they increase the risk of falls. Withdrawing these medications is challenging because of their propensity for causing dependence and rebound insomnia.describe the use of anxiolytic and hypnosedative medications by patients attending a falls clinic, determine the success of recommendations to cease or reduce use of these medications, and evaluate patient characteristics influencing the success of these recommendations.ients with a first appointment at an Australian falls clinic between January 2006 and December 2008 were identified from letters written by the geriatrician or rehabilitation physician who ran the clinic. Patients who were taking a BZ/Z drug, had attended a follow-up appointment at least 2 months after their index appointment and had received a documented recommendation to alter their BZ/Z drug use at the index appointment were included in this study. The associations between compliance with the specialist physician's recommendation to alter the BZ/Z drug and BZ/Z drug dose, frequency and duration, patient's age, sex, residence, co-morbidities and number of regular medications were assessed. Inter-clinician variation in the proportion of patients receiving a follow-up appointment, recording of BZ/Z drug use and the proportion of patients given a recommendation to alter BZ/Z drug use were also analysed in the broader population of all patients receiving a first appointment at the falls clinic in the study period.a from 302 patient records revealed that 21.5% of patients were using a BZ/Z drug and 27.8% were using any drug for its hypnosedative properties. Over the 3-year study period there was a reduction in BZ use, which was countered by an increase in the use of zolpidem, so that the overall use of BZ/Z drugs did not change. Of those patients taking a BZ/Z drug, 48% (31/65) were followed up and had a documented recommendation to alter their BZ/Z drug use. At least 68% (21/31) of these patients were compliant at follow-up. Patients who were assessed by a geriatrician were more likely to be advised to alter their BZ use than those assessed by a rehabilitation specialist (p = 0.002). Patients were more likely to be compliant if they were given a recommendation to cease their BZ/Z drug compared with advice to reduce the dose or to gradually reduce the dose with the aim of cessation (p = 0.019). There were no sex- or age-specific differences in compliance. Patients who were successful in ceasing or reducing BZ/Z drug use showed nonsignificant trends toward having a reduced number of co-morbidities and regular medications, and lower frequency of use of BZ/Z drugs.observed a constant proportion of falls clinic patients taking BZs or Z drugs between 2006 and 2008. Specialist recommendation to cease or reduce dosage of these medications was associated with a high success rate.
,   Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation, indicated by induction of EBV early antigens from latently infected lymphoid cell lines by phorbol esters, is inhibited by retinoic acid (RA). Viral reactivation, which is triggered by the immediate-early BZLF-1 (Z) viral gene product, is repressed by retinoic acid receptors (RARs) RAR alpha and RXR alpha. These proteins negatively regulate Z-mediated transactivation of the promoter for an EBV early gene product, early antigen-diffuse (EaD). Here we confirm a direct physical interaction between the AP1-like protein Z and RXR alpha and map the domains of interaction in the Z protein and RXR alpha. The domain required for homodimerization of Z is separate from that required for its interaction with RXR alpha. Z also has the effect of repressing activation of an RAR-responsive cellular promoter (BRE). Point mutants in the dimerization domain of Z unable to interact with RXR alpha do not repress RXR alpha-mediated transactivation of BRE, the promoter for RAR beta, which suggests that interaction between the two proteins is required for this repressor effect. The domain of RXR alpha required for interaction with Z has been mapped, and is again separate from that required for homodimerization. These results indicate that a 'cross-coupling' or direct interaction between Z and RAR alpha and RXR alpha can modulate the reactivation of latent EBV infection and suggest that, reciprocally, the viral protein Z may influence cellular regulatory pathways.
,   The three-dimensional structure of the Z-band in fish white muscle has been investigated by electron microscopy. This Z-band is described as simple, since in longitudinal sections it has the appearance of a single zigzag pattern connecting the ends of actin filaments of opposite polarity from adjacent sarcomeres. The reconstruction shows two pairs of links, the Z-links, between one actin filament and the facing four actin filaments in the adjacent sarcomere. The members of each pair have nearly diametrically opposed origins. In relation to one actin filament, one pair of links appears to bind along the final 10 nm of the actin filament (proximal site) and the other pair binds along a region extending from 5 to 20 nm from the filament end (distal site). Between one pair and the other, there is a rotation of approximately 80 degrees round the filament axis. A Z-link with a proximal site at the end of one actin filament attaches at a distal site on the oppositely oriented actin filaments of the facing sarcomere and vice versa. The length of each Z-link is consistent with the length of an alpha-actinin molecule. An additional set of links located 10-15 nm from the center of the Z-band occurs between actin filaments of the same polarity. These polar links connect the actin filaments along the same direction on each side of the Z-band. The three-dimensional structure appears to have twofold screw symmetry about the central plane of the Z-band. Only approximate twofold rotational symmetry is observed in directions parallel to the actin filaments. Previous models of the Z-band in which four identical and rotationally symmetrical links emanate from the end of one actin filament and span across to the ends of four actin filaments in the adjacent sarcomere are therefore incorrect.
,   A moderately thermophilic, organotrophic bacterium with vibrioid cells was isolated from a sample of a cyanobacterial mat from caldera Uzon, Kamchatka, Russia, and designated strain Z-9701T. Cells of strain Z-9701T were curved, Gram-negative rods, 0.5-0.7 x 2.5-5.0 microm in size, with tapering ends and with fast, wavy movement by means of lateral flagella located on the concave side of the cell. Colonies were small, white, irregular or round, 0.2 mm in diameter, and with even edges. Strain Z-9701T was an obligate anaerobe with a temperature optimum at 60-65 degrees C and a pH optimum at 7.3. It fermented glucose, fructose, mannose, N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, adonite, arginine, serine, peptone, yeast extract and Casamino acids. The fermentation products formed during growth on glucose were acetate, lactate, H2, CO2 and ethanol. Strain Z-9701T reduced elemental sulfur to H2S during organotrophic growth with glucose or peptides as energy and carbon sources. In the presence of S0, strain Z-9701T was capable of lithotrophic growth with molecular hydrogen as energy substrate and 0.1 g yeast extract l(-1) as carbon source. Sulfate, thiosulfate, nitrate, Fe(III) and sulfite were not reduced and did not stimulate growth. The G+C content of strain Z-9701T DNA was 54.6 mol%. The results of 16S rDNA sequence analyses revealed that strain Z-9701T belongs to the cluster within the Clostridium group formed by Thermanaerovibrio acidaminovorans, Dethiosulfovibrio peptidovorans, Anaerobaculum thermoterrenum and Aminobacterium colombiense, but the level of sequence similarity with the members of this cluster was not very high (87.6-92.2%). Among these organisms, Thermanaerovibrio acidaminovorans is phenotypically close to strain Z-9701T. However, the two organisms showed a relatively low level of similarity of their 16S rRNA sequences (92.2%) and of DNA-DNA hybridization (15 +/- 1%). Nevertheless, on the basis of the similar morphology and physiology of the new isolate and Thermanaerovibrio acidaminovorans, strain Z-9701T was placed in the genus Thermanaerovibrio and a new species, Thermanaerovibrio velox, proposed for it. The type strain is Z-9701T (= DSM 12556T).
,   To investigate the applicability of a wide range of microionization chambers for reference dosimetry measurements in low- and medium-energy x-ray beams.surements were performed with six cylindrical microchamber models, as well as one scanning chamber and two Farmer-type chambers for comparison purposes. Air-kerma calibration coefficients were determined at the University of Wisconsin Accredited Dosimetry Calibration Laboratory for each chamber for a range of low- and medium-energy x-ray beams (20-250 kVp), with effective energies ranging from 11.5 keV to 145 keV, and a (60)Co beam. A low-Z proof-of-concept microchamber was developed and calibrated with and without a high-Z silver epoxy on the collecting electrode. chambers composed of low-Z materials (Z ≤ 13), including the Farmer-type chambers, the scanning chamber, and the PTW TN31014 and the proof-of-concept microchambers, exhibited air-kerma calibration coefficients with little dependence on the quality of the beam. These chambers typically exhibited variations in calibration coefficients of less than 3% with the beam quality, for medium energy beams. However, variations in air-kerma calibration coefficients of greater than 50% were measured over the range of medium-energy x-ray beams for each of the microchambers containing high-Z collecting electrodes (Z > 13). For these high-Z chambers, which include the Exradin A14SL and A16 chambers, the PTW TN31006 chamber, the IBA CC01 chamber, and the proof-of-concept chamber containing silver, the average variation in air-kerma calibration coefficients between any two calibration beams was nearly 25% over the entire range of beam qualities investigated. to the strong energy dependence observed with microchambers containing high-Z components, these chambers may not be suitable dosimeters for kilovoltage x-ray applications, as they do not meet the TG-61 requirements. It is recommended that only microchambers containing low-Z materials (Z ≤ 13) be considered for air-kerma calibrations for reference dosimetry in low- and medium-energy x-ray beams.
,   Left ventricular (LV) mass varies in proportion to lean body mass (LBM) but is usually expressed relative to height or body surface area (BSA), each of which functions as a surrogate for LBM. The aims of this study were to characterize the adiposity-related biases associated with each of these scaling variables and to determine the impact of these biases on the diagnosis of LV hypertrophy (LVH) in a group of children at risk for LVH.a retrospective study, LV mass was estimated using M-mode echocardiography in 222 healthy nonoverweight reference children and 112 children "at risk" for LVH (48 healthy overweight children and 64 children with hypertension). LBM was estimated for all children using validated predictive equations and was considered the criterion scaling variable. Z scores for LV mass for LBM, LV mass for height, and LV mass for BSA were calculated for each child relative to the reference group. The performance of height-based and BSA-based Z scores were compared with that of LBM-based Z scores at different levels of adiposity (estimated by the Z score for body mass index for age [BMIz]).ng healthy normotensive children, LV mass-for-height Z scores were greater than LV mass-for-LBM Z scores at higher values of BMIz and lower than LV mass-for-LBM Z scores at lower values of BMIz (R(2) = 0.52, P < .0001). LV mass-for-BSA Z scores for agreed well with LBM-based Z scores at BMIz < 0.7 but were lower than LV mass-for-LBM Z scores for at BMIz > 0.7 (R(2) = 0.31, P < .0001). Compared with 13% of at-risk children classified as having LVH on the basis of LV mass for LBM > 95th percentile, 30% and 11% had LVH when LV mass was scaled to height and BSA, respectively.ling LV mass to BSA in children results in less misclassification with respect to LVH than does scaling to height.
,   Our laboratory has generated a mouse deficient in the alpha (alpha) subunit of the G protein, G(z), (G(z alpha)) gene and we have examined the involvement of G(z alpha) in spinal and supraspinal analgesia and tolerance mechanisms. Spinal analgesia was tested by the response times to heat or cold tail flick times in a water bath at 50 degrees C or -5 degrees C and supraspinal analgesia was tested by the times for paw licking and jumping from a plate at 52 degrees C or 0.5 degrees C. Tolerance to morphine was induced in wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient mice over a 5 day period and the behavioral tests were performed daily. The tail flick reaction times to both hot and cold stimuli did not differ between the wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient mice. Analysis of the reaction times from the hot and cold plate tests showed the G(z alpha)-deficient mice developed tolerance to morphine to a greater degree and at a faster rate than wild type mice. Opioid binding assays were performed on synaptic membranes prepared from naive and morphine tolerant wild type and G(z alpha)-deficient brains. No changes in the affinity of morphine for its receptor or in the density of mu and delta opioid receptors were found between the two groups of mice in the naive or morphine tolerant state. This indicates that the absence of G(z alpha) does not affect opioid receptor affinity or receptor up or down regulation. Our results suggest that the presence of G(z alpha) delays the development of morphine tolerance and represents a possible therapeutic target for improving the clinical use of morphine.
,   To evaluate how the lipid profile associates with apolipoprotein (apo) E gene polymorphism, plasma adiponectin level, and body mass index (BMI) z score in Portuguese youth.nsversal cohort study.pital de São João and Hospital de Crianças Maria Pia, Porto, Portugal, between May 2006 and March 2007. hundred thirty-eight obese children and adolescents (62 boys; mean age, 10.8 years [range, 4-16 years]). Participants were grouped according to (1) apo E polymorphism: presence of the apo E alleles 2 or 4 in E2 (n = 11) and E4 (n = 31) carriers, respectively, or as E3/E3 (n = 94) (carriers of E2/E4 [n = 2] were excluded from apo E analysis because they carry both alleles) and (2) BMI z score: group 1, BMI z score less than 2 (n = 31); group 2, BMI z score of 2 or more and less than 2.5 (n = 65); and group 3, BMI z score of 2.5 or more (n = 42).id variable comparisons between apo E polymorphism and BMI z score groups and influence of BMI z score and adiponectin level, adjusted for apo E polymorphism, on total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apo A-I to apo B ratios.carriers presented with a worse lipid profile when compared with E2 and E3/E3 carriers. There was also a clear risk of worsening for the group with the highest BMI z score. Apolipoprotein E polymorphism, BMI z score, and adiponectin level were significantly associated with total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (standardized beta coefficient = 0.283, 0.354, and -0.292, respectively; P < .001 for all) and apo A-I to apo B (standardized beta coefficient = -0.372, -0.284, and 0.327, respectively; P < .001 for all) ratios. data suggest a more atherogenic lipid profile for some apo E genotypes and for increasing BMI z score, whereas adiponectin level seems to play a protective role.
,   The B-->Z transition of DNA modified by platinum(II) complexes has attracted considerable interest because of a possible relationship with the molecular mechanism of antitumor activity of these metal-based compounds. Until recently it was generally accepted that the cis geometry of leaving groups in the bifunctional platinum(II) complexes should be therapeutically active. This paradigm had to be abandoned recently due to the finding that several analogues of clinically ineffective trans-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (transplatin) exhibit antitumor activity. One of these therapeutically active trans compounds is trans-dichlorobisiminoetherplatinum(II) (trans-EE) [iminoether = E-HN = C(OMe)Me]. In view of the fact that DNA is the main pharmacological target for platinum(II) complexes and that these complexes attack preferentially guanine residues in DNA, it is of interest to examine the effect of iminoether platinum(II) complexes on the conformation of double-stranded poly(dG-dC) and its synthetic analogues. As these polymers can undergo the B-->Z transition, we have investigated in detail the effect of trans-EE and its cis isomer (cis-EE) on this conformational transformation using different techniques. They include circular dichroism spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy and immunochemical assay employing specific antibodies against Z-DNA. It has been shown that cis-EE somewhat facilitates the B-->Z transition induced by increasing NaCl concentration and radically lowers its cooperativity. The polymers modified by cis-EE at low or high salt concentrations have been found to adopt distorted conformations which belong to the B and Z families respectively. Thus, cis-EE affects the B-->Z transition in DNA in a way similar to antitumor cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cisplatin). On the other hand, trans-EE was found to affect B-->Z transition (its cooperativity or the NaCl concentration corresponding to the midpoint of the salt-induced transition) only slightly. This behavior of trans-EE was, however, fundamentally different from that of clinically ineffective transplatin, which hinders B-->Z transition and lowers its cooperativity. The different effects of trans-EE on the B-->Z transition in comparison with the effects of cisplatin, transplatin and monofunctional chlorodiethylenetriamineplatinum(II) chloride are consistent with a unique DNA binding mode of this new antitumor trans compound, which might be associated with its unexpected biological efficacy.
,   The tricyclic antidepressant, doxepin, is formulated as an irrational mixture of E (trans) and Z (cis) stereoisomers (85%: 15%). We examined the stereoselective metabolism of doxepin in vitro, with the use of human liver microsomes, recombinant CYP2D6 and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. In human liver microsomes over the concentration range 5-1500 microM, the rate of Z-doxepin N-demethylation exceeded that of E-doxepin above 100 microM in two of three livers. Eadie-Hofstee plots were curvilinear indicating the involvement of several enzymes in N-demethylation. Coincubation of doxepin with 7,8-naphthoflavone and ketoconazole reduced the rates of N-demethylation of E- and Z-doxepin by 30-50% and 40-60%, respectively, suggesting the involvement of CYP1A and CYP3A4, whilst quinidine had little effect on N-demethylation. In contrast, doxepin hydroxylation was exclusively stereo-specific; E-doxepin and E-N-desmethyldoxepin were hydroxylated with high affinity in liver microsomes and by recombinant CYP2D6 (Km in the range of 5-8 microM), but there was no evidence of Z-doxepin hydroxylation. In 'metabolic consumption' experiments with liver microsomes (having measurable CYP2D6 activity) and initial substrate concentration of 1 microM, the consumption of E-doxepin was greater (P < 0.05, n = 5) than that of Z-doxepin. Quinidine inhibited the consumption of E-doxepin but did not affect the consumption of Z-doxepin. With N-desmethyldoxepin, quinidine inhibited the consumption of E-N-desmethyl-doxepin whereas Z-N-desmethyldoxepin appeared to be a terminal oxidative metabolite. In summary, CYP2D6 is a major oxidative enzyme in doxepin metabolism; predominantly catalysing hydroxylation with an exclusive preference for the E-isomers. The relatively more rapid metabolism of E-isomeric forms, and the limited metabolic pathways for the Z-isomers may explain the apparent enrichment of Z-N-desmethyldoxepin that is observed in vivo.
,   This article describes the PROSPECTOR_3 threading algorithm, which combines various scoring functions designed to match structurally related target/template pairs. Each variant described was found to have a Z-score above which most identified templates have good structural (threading) alignments, Z(struct) (Z(good)). 'Easy' targets with accurate threading alignments are identified as single templates with Z > Z(good) or two templates, each with Z > Z(struct), having a good consensus structure in mutually aligned regions. 'Medium' targets have a pair of templates lacking a consensus structure, or a single template for which Z(struct) < Z < Z(good). PROSPECTOR_3 was applied to a comprehensive Protein Data Bank (PDB) benchmark composed of 1491 single domain proteins, 41-200 residues long and no more than 30% identical to any threading template. Of the proteins, 878 were found to be easy targets, with 761 having a root mean square deviation (RMSD) from native of less than 6.5 A. The average contact prediction accuracy was 46%, and on average 17.6 residue continuous fragments were predicted with RMSD values of 2.0 A. There were 606 medium targets identified, 87% (31%) of which had good structural (threading) alignments. On average, 9.1 residue, continuous fragments with RMSD of 2.5 A were predicted. Combining easy and medium sets, 63% (91%) of the targets had good threading (structural) alignments compared to native; the average target/template sequence identity was 22%. Only nine targets lacked matched templates. Moreover, PROSPECTOR_3 consistently outperforms PSIBLAST. Similar results were predicted for open reading frames (ORFS) < or =200 residues in the M. genitalium, E. coli and S. cerevisiae genomes. Thus, progress has been made in identification of weakly homologous/analogous proteins, with very high alignment coverage, both in a comprehensive PDB benchmark as well as in genomes.
,   New biomarkers are needed to improve the specificity of prostate cancer detection and characterisation of individual tumors. In a proteomics profiling approach using MALDI-MS tissue imaging on frozen tissue sections, we identified discriminating masses. Imaging analysis of cancer, non-malignant benign epithelium and stromal areas of 15 prostatectomy specimens in a test and 10 in a validation set identified characteristic m/z peaks for each tissue type, e.g. m/z 10775 for benign epithelial, m/z 6284 and m/z 6657.5 for cancer and m/z 4965 for stromal tissue. A 10-fold cross-validation analysis showed highest discriminatory ability to separate tissue types for m/z 6284 and m/z 6657.5, both overexpressed in cancer, and a multicomponent mass peak cluster at m/z 10775-10797.4 overexpressed in benign epithelial tissue. ROC AUC values for these three masses ranged from 0.85 to 0.95 in the discrimination of malignant and non-malignant tissue. To identify the underlying proteins, prostate whole tissue extract was separated by nano-HPLC and subjected to MALDI TOF/TOF analysis. Proteins in fractions containing discriminatory m/z masses were identified by MS/MS analysis and candidate marker proteins subsequently validated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Biliverdin reductase B (BLVRB) turned out to be overexpressed in PCa tissue.this study on cryosections of radical prostatectomies of prostate cancer patients, we performed a MALDI-MS tissue imaging analysis and a consecutive protein identification of significant m/z masses by nano-HPLC, MALDI TOF/TOF and MS/MS analysis. We identified BLVRB as a potential biomarker in the discrimination of PCa and benign tissue, also suggesting BVR as a feasible therapeutic target.
,   Subtraction ictal single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) co-registered to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (SISCOM) is a useful modality to identify epileptogenic focus. Using this technique, several studies have generally considered the area of highest ictal hyperperfusion, as outlined by thresholding the difference images with a standard z score of 2, to be highly concordant to the epileptogenic focus. In clinical practice, several factors influence ictal hyperperfusion and using different SISCOM thresholds can be helpful. We aimed to systematically evaluate the localizing value of various z scores (1, 1.5, 2, and 2.5) in a seizure-free cohort following resective epilepsy surgery, and to examine the localizing information of perfusion patterns observed at each z score.nty-six patients were identified as having ictal-interictal SPECT images, preoperative and postoperative MRI studies, and having remained seizure free for at least 6 months after temporal or extratemporal surgical resection. SISCOM analysis was performed using preoperative MRI studies, and then blindly reviewed for localization of hyperperfused regions. With the added information from postoperative, coregistered MRI, perfusion patterns were determined.ng pair-wise comparisons, we found that the optimal z score for SPECT-SISCOM localization of the epileptogenic zone was 1.5, not the commonly used z score of 2. The z score of 1.5 was 84.8% sensitive and 93.8% specific. The z score of 1.5 had a moderate interrater agreement (0.70). When an hourglass configuration hyperperfusion pattern was present, a trend toward correctly localizing the seizure onset region was suggested (100% of the 11 observed occurrences). Nonetheless this trend was not statistically significant, possibly reflecting the small number of occurrences in our study.COM is a useful modality in evaluating patients for epilepsy surgery. This study shows that the z score of 1.5 represents a highly sensitive and specific SISCOM threshold that should be examined in conjunction with the traditionally used z score of 2 to enhance the chances of correct localization. Further prospective investigations are needed to confirm this finding in large patient series.
,   Recently, we characterized a surface antigen (Z-1) of guinea pig macrophages by monoclonal anti-Z-1 antibody. The Z-1 antigen consists of two different polypeptide chains; alpha (140 kDa) and beta (95 kDa). This antigen is closely correlated with the phagocytic activity of the cells for zymosan and presumably functions as a receptor for zymosan. In the present study, the effect of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) on the function of Z-1 was examined. Incubation of ortho-[32P]phosphate-labeled macrophages with PMA greatly increased the phosphorylation of the beta subunit of Z-1 but not that of the alpha subunit. Optimal phosphorylation was observed when cells were incubated with 300 ng/ml of PMA for 60-120 min. The PMA-induced phosphorylation was markedly suppressed by treatment of the macrophages with H-7, an inhibitor of protein kinase C. A chemotactic peptide, N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (fMLP) also caused phosphorylation of the beta subunit. Unlike PMA, fMLP maximized the phosphorylation within 30 s. Purified Z-1 was an excellent substrate for the exogenously added protein kinase C only in the presence of both Ca2+ and phosphatidylserine. H-7 completely inhibited the in vitro phosphorylation. These data suggest that the beta subunit of Z-1 is phosphorylated by protein kinase C. The phosphorylation of Z-1 by PMA and fMLP coincided with inhibition of zymosan phagocytosis. A linear relationship was obtained between the level of phosphorylation of Z-1 and the degree of inhibition of zymosan phagocytosis induced by PMA. Thus, the results suggest that zymosan uptake is negatively regulated by protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation of the beta subunit of Z-1.
,   Gastrin is known to enhance the growth of pancreatic carcinoma via the cholecystokinin (CCK)-2/gastrin receptor. We investigated the anti-tumor effect of Z-360 (calcium bis [(R)-(-)-3-[3-{5-cyclohexyl-1-(3,3-dimethyl-2-oxo-butyl)-2-oxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-benzo[b][1,4]diazepin-3-yl}ureido]benzoate]), a novel orally active CCK-2 receptor antagonist alone or combined with the chemotherapeutic agent, gemcitabine in human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines.60 potently inhibited specific binding of [3H]CCK-8 to the human CCK-2 receptor, with a Ki value of 0.47 nmol/l, and showed antagonistic activity for this receptor. The anti-tumor effect of Z-360 alone or combined with gemcitabine was assessed using subcutaneous xenografts of MiaPaCa2 and PANC-1 and an orthotopic xenograft model (PANC-1). Oral administration of Z-360 significantly inhibited the growth of MiaPaCa2 (41.7% inhibition at 100 mg/kg, P<0.01). Combined administration of Z-360 and gemcitabine significantly inhibited subcutaneous PANC-1 tumor growth compared with either agent alone (27.1% inhibition compared to effect with gemcitabine, P<0.05), and significantly prolonged survival compared with the vehicle control (median survival of 49 days in vehicle compared to 57 days in the combination group, P<0.05). In vitro studies showed that Z-360 significantly inhibited gastrin-induced proliferation of human CCK-2 receptor-expressing cells, and also significantly reduced gastrin-induced PKB/Akt phosphorylation to the level of untreated controls.the present study, we have shown that Z-360 combined with gemcitabine can inhibit pancreatic tumor growth and prolong survival in a pancreatic carcinoma xenograft model, on a possible mode of action being the inhibition of gastrin-induced PKB/Akt phosphorylation through blockade of the CCK-2 receptor. Our results suggest that Z-360 may be a useful adjunct to gemcitabine for the treatment of pancreatic carcinoma and a therapeutic option for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.
,   In Titan's atmosphere, photochemical pathways that lead to nitrogen heteroaromatics may incorporate photoisomerization of their structural isomers as a final step. (E)- and (Z)-phenylvinylnitrile ((E)- and (Z)-PVN, C6H5 -CH=CHCN) are structural isomers of quinoline that themselves possess extensive absorptions in the ultraviolet, and thus may engage in such photoisomerization pathways. The present study explores the vibronic spectroscopy and photo-induced isomerization of gas-phase (E)- and (Z)-PVN in the 33,600-35,850 cm(-1) region under jet-cooled conditions. The S0-S1 origins for (E)- and (Z)-PVN have been identified at 33 827 cm(-1) and 33 707 cm(-1), respectively. Isomer-specific UV-UV hole-burning and UV depletion spectra reveal sharp vibronic structure that extends over almost 2000 cm(-1), with thresholds for fast non-radiative decay identified by a comparison between hole-burning and UV depletion spectra. Dispersed fluorescence spectra of the two isomers enable the assignment of many low frequency transitions in both molecules, aided by harmonic frequency calculations (B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p)) and a comparison with the established spectroscopy of phenylvinylacetylene, the ethynyl counterpart to PVN. Both isomers are proven to be planar in both the S0 ground and S1 electronic excited states. (E)-PVN exhibits extensive Duschinsky mixing involving out-of-plane modes whose frequencies and character change significantly in the ππ(∗) transition, which modulates the degree of single- and double-bond character along the vinylnitrile substituent. This same mixing is much less evident in (Z)-PVN. The spectroscopic characterization of (E)- and (Z)-PVN served as the basis for photoisomerization experiments using ultraviolet hole-filling spectroscopy carried out in a reaction tube affixed to the pulsed valve. Successful interconversion between (E) and (Z)-PVN was demonstrated via ultraviolet hole-filling experiments. Photoexcitation of (E)- and (Z)-PVN at their respective S0-S1 origins failed to produce quinoline, a simple polycyclic aromatic nitrogen heterocylcle, within the detection sensitivity of our experiments. Stationary points along the potential energy surface associated with (Z)-PVN → quinoline isomerization showed a barrier of 93 kcal/mol associated with the first step in the isomerization process, slowing the interconversion process at the excitation energies used (96 kcal/mol) to timescales beyond those probed in the present experiment. 
,   The systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), which may develop following cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), can cause postoperative complications that contribute to the morbidity and mortality associated with open-heart surgery. Inflammatory mediators such as cytokines, are thought to play an important role in SIRS. Zero Balance Ultrafiltration (Z-BUF) is thought to reduce the quantity of inflammatory mediators associated with CPB and may attenuate the adverse effects of bypass. Following ethics committee approval, both an unfiltered experimental group and Z-BUF treatment group consisting of Yorkshire pigs (41 +/- 19 kg) were anesthetized, ventilated, instrumented, cannulated and placed on CPB for 60 minutes. Following CPB, an infusion of low-dose endotoxin (1 microg/kg) was administered I.V. and the animals were monitored for 3.5 hours. The Z-BUF treatment group (n = 5) received high-volume Z-BUF (122 ml/kg +/- 41) and the unfiltered experimental group (n = 5) did not. Hemodynamics, blood gases, and pulmonary functions were measured before, during, and after CPB. Following euthanasia, the middle lobe of the lung was prepared for histological analysis. Necropsy of the lung sample was weighed before and after dehydration to evaluate lung water content. During the experimental time course, plasma samples were evaluated for Interleukin-8 (IL-8) concentrations. Arterial PO2's (mmHg) in the unfiltered experimental group showed a significant reduction at 3.5 hours post CPB when compared to baseline while the Z-BUF treatment group PaO2 did not significantly change. There was a significant difference in the PaO2 between the unfiltered experimental and Z-BUF group at the final 3.5 hour time point (78 +/- 32 vs. 188 +/- 92 mmHg respectively). Pulmonary compliance (ml/cmH2O) was significantly reduced in both the unfiltered experimental and Z-BUF treatment groups with the unfiltered experimental group being the most significant. Lung wet/dry ratios were established and results found the unfiltered experimental group ratio significantly greater than that of the Z-BUF treatment group. Morphometric analysis of histologic lung sections confirmed pulmonary injury in the unfiltered experimental group and protection in the Z-BUF treatment group. This study suggests that Z-BUF provides higher arterial PO2's and lung compliances while reducing pulmonary edema and lung injury in a porcine model of PPS.
,   Photosystem II, the photosynthetic water oxidizing complex, contains two well characterized redox active tyrosines, D and Z. D forms a stable radical of unknown function. Z is an electron carrier between the primary chlorophyll donor and the manganese catalytic site. The vibrational difference spectra associated with the oxidation of tyrosines Z and D have been obtained through the use of infrared spectroscopy (MacDonald, G. M., Bixby, K.A., and Barry, B.A. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90, 11024-11028). Here, we examine the effect of deuterium exchange on these vibrational difference spectra. While the putative C-O vibration of stable tyrosine radical D. downshifts in 2H2O, the putative C-O vibration of tyrosine radical Z. does not. This result is consistent with the existence of a hydrogen bond to the phenol oxygen of the D. radical; we conclude that a hydrogen bond is not formed to the Z. radical. In an effort to identify the amino acid residue that is the proton acceptor for Z, we have performed global 15N labeling. While significant 15N shifts are observed in the vibrational difference spectrum, substitution of a glutamine for a histidine that is predicted to lie in the environment of tyrosine Z has little or no effect on the difference infrared spectrum. There is also no significant change in the yield or lineshape of the Z. EPR signal under continuous illumination in this mutant. Our results are inconsistent with the possibility that this residue, histidine 190 of the D1 polypeptide, acts as the sole proton acceptor for tyrosine Z.
,   Affibody molecules are a class of small (ca.7 kDa) robust scaffold proteins with high potential as tracers for radionuclide molecular imaging in vivo. Incorporation of a cysteine-containing peptide-based chelator at the C terminus provides an opportunity for stable labelling with the radionuclide (99m)Tc. The use of a GGGC chelator at the C terminus has provided the lowest renal radioactivity retention of the previously investigated peptide-based chelators. Previously, it has also been demonstrated that replacement of the His(6)-tag with the negatively charged histidine-glutamate-histidine-glutamate-histidine-glutamate (HEHEHE)-tag permits purification of affibody molecules by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) and provides low hepatic accumulation of radioactivity of conjugates site-specifically labelled at the C terminus using several different nuclides. We hypothesized that the combination of a HEHEHE-tag at the N terminus and a GGGC chelator at the C terminus of an affibody molecule would be a favourable format permitting IMAC purification and providing low uptake in excretory organs. To investigate this hypothesis, a (HE)(3)-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC affibody molecule was generated. It could be efficiently purified by IMAC and stably labelled with (99m)Tc. (99m)Tc-(HE)(3)-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC preserved specific binding to HER2-expressing cells. In NMRI mice, hepatic uptake of (99m)Tc-(HE)(3)-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC was lower than the uptake of the control affibody molecules, (99m)Tc-Z(HER2:2395)-VDC and (99m)Tc-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC. At 1 and 4 h after injection, the renal uptake of (99m)Tc-(HE)(3)-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC was 2-3-fold lower than uptake of (99m)Tc-Z(HER2:2395)-VDC, but it was substantially higher than uptake of (99m)Tc-Z(HER2:342)-GGGC. Further investigation indicated that a fraction of (99m)Tc was chelated by the HEHEHE-tag which caused a higher accumulation of radioactivity in the kidneys. Thus, a combination of a HEHEHE-tag and the GGGC chelator in targeting scaffold proteins was found to be undesirable in the case of (99m)Tc labelling due to a partial loss of site-specificity of nuclide chelation.
,   Cyclical intravenous pamidronate is a widely used symptomatic therapy in moderate to severe osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). The effects of treatment discontinuation on long bone development have not been characterized. In this observational study we used peripheral quantitative computed tomography to assess the radius at the distal metaphysis and at the diaphysis in 23 young OI patients (11 female) who had received pamidronate for at least 3 years. Measurements were performed twice, at the time of treatment discontinuation (when the age of the patients ranged from 5.9 to 21.3 years) and at an average of 1.9 years (range 1.5 to 2.4 years) later. At the time of pamidronate discontinuation, all but one of the patients who were below 15 years of age (n=14) had a positive age- and sex-specific z-score for bone mineral content (BMC) at the metaphysis, resulting in a mean z-score of +2.0 (SD=1.0) for this subgroup. In contrast, patients aged 15 years or older (n=9) had an average metaphyseal BMC z-score of -1.5 (SD=1.5). After pamidronate discontinuation, metaphyseal BMC z-score decreased by an average of 2.4 (SD=2.0) in the whole group. The change in BMC z-score was growth-dependent, as BMC z-scores decreased by about 2 or more in all patients in whom distal radius growth plates were open when pamidronate was discontinued. In contrast, none of the 11 patients with closed distal radius growth plates experienced a decrease in metaphyseal BMC z-score by more than 2. At the diaphysis, the average BMC z-score was low at the time of the last pamidronate infusion [z-score -1.7 (SD=1.4)]. After pamidronate discontinuation, the average diaphyseal BMC z-score decreased by only 0.3 (SD=0.4). In summary, this study shows that the effect of pamidronate discontinuation is much larger at the radial metaphysis than at the diaphysis and is dependent on growth. Metaphyseal bone tissue added by longitudinal growth after treatment discontinuation has a lower density than tissue created during treatment. It is possible that this produces zones of localized bone fragility after pamidronate treatment is stopped in growing children.
,   Fresh exudates from the lacquer tree, Rhus vernicifera DC, were extracted with acetone and the solution was chromatographed to isolate monomer, dimer, trimer, and oligomer fractions of urushiols. Constituents of the monomeric and dimeric fractions were then identified by two-dimensional (2D) 1H-13C heteronuclear multiple quantum coherence (HMQC) and heteronuclear multiple bond coherence (HMBC) NMR spectroscopic techniques. The results showed that the monomeric fraction contained 3-[8'Z,11'E,13'Z-pentadecatrienyl]catechol (1), 3-[8'Z,11'Z,14'-pentadecatrienyl]catechol (2), and 3-pentadecanyl]catechol (3), which was verified by HPLC analysis. The dimeric fraction contained 8'-(3' ',4' '-dihydroxy-5' '-alkenyl)phenyl-3-[9'E,11'E,13'Z-pentadecatrienyl]catechol (4), 14'-(3' ',4' '-dihydroxy-5' '-alkenyl)phenyl-3-[8'Z,10'E,12'E-pentadecatrienyl]catechol (5), 2-hydroxyl-3- or -6-alkenylphenyl ethyl ether (6), 14'-(3' ',4' '-dihydroxy-2' '-alkenyl)phenyl-3-[8'Z,10'E,12'E-pentadeca-trienyl]catechol (7), 15'-(2' '-hydroxy-3' '- or -6' '-alkenyl)phenyloxy-3-[8'Z,11'Z,13'E)-pentadecatrienyl]catechol (8), 14'-(2' ',3' '-dihydroxy-4' '-alkenyl)phenyl-3-[8'Z,10'E,12'E-pentadecantrienyl]catechol (9), 1,1',2,2'-tetrahydroxy-6,6'-dialkenyl-4,3'-biphenyl (10), 1,1',2,2'-tetrahydroxy-6,6'-dialkenyl-4,4'-biphenyl (11), 1,1',2,2'-tetrahydroxy-6,6'-dialkenyl-5,4'-biphenyl (12), and 1,2,1'-trihydroxy-6,6'-dialkenyldibenzofuran (13) as constituents. In addition, dimeric ethers and peroxides, such as compounds 14 and 15, were produced by autoxidation of monomeric urushiols in atmospheric air. The possible reaction mechanisms for the dehydrogenative polymerization of urushiols by Rhus laccase present in the fresh raw exudates under the atmospheric oxygen are discussed on the basis of structures identified. This is of primary importance because the use of the urushi exudates as coating materials does not involve organic solvents and is an environmentally friendly process.
,   The growth of children is an indicator of health and society's wellbeing. Growth references are useful in monitoring a child's growth, which is a very important part of child care. Poland's growth references are not updated regularly. Although several growth reference ranges have been developed in Poland over recent years, sampling was restricted to urban populations of major cities. The aim of this study was to assess how well Polish children match with, or diverge from, regional charts and to compare them with international growth references.r Polish and two international (WHO 2007 and USCDC2000) growth references were used to calculate the height, weight and BMI z-scores in a recent, large, population-representative sample of school-aged children and adolescents in Poland. The distributions of z-scores were analysed with descriptive and inferential statistical methods.n height z-scores calculated with the use of the WHO 2007 and USCDC2000 references were positive and significantly different from zero over the entire age range. The mean height z-score was closest to zero in the Poznan reference for boys (0.05) and Warszawa reference for girls (0.01). Median weight z-scores were positive under all weight references over the entire age range with only the exception of 18-year-old girls' weight z-score calculated relative to USCDC2000. Median BMI z-scores were positive in males in early childhood, decreasing with age. In the case of girls, the median BMI z-score calculated using WHO 2007 and USCDC2000 was close to zero in early childhood, decreased in adolescents and reached minimum values at age 18 years. Median BMI z-scores calculated with the use of the Lodz reference fluctuated between 0.05 and 0.2 over the studied age range.this contemporary sample of Polish school-aged children, distributions of height, weight and BMI differed from those of children from the international growth references. These differences should be considered when using the references. There exist certain limitations to the analysis of height, weight, and BMI z-scores when Polish regional references are used.
,   Detection of HER2-overexpression in tumors and metastases is important for the selection of patients who will benefit from trastuzumab treatment. Earlier investigations showed successful imaging of HER2-positive tumors in patients using indium- or gallium-labeled Affibody molecules. The goal of this study was to evaluate the use of (99m)Tc-labeled Affibody molecules for the detection of HER2 expression. The Affibody molecule Z(HER2:342) with the chelator sequences mercaptoacetyl-Gly-Glu-Gly (maGEG) and mercaptoacetyl-Glu-Glu-Glu (maEEE) was synthesized by peptide synthesis and labeled with technetium-99m. Binding specificity, cellular retention, and in vitro stability were investigated. The biodistribution of (99m)Tc-maGEG-Z(HER2:342) and (99m)Tc-maEEE-Z(HER2:342) was compared with (99m)Tc-maGGG-Z(HER2:342) in normal mice, and the tumor targeting properties of (99m)Tc-maEEE-Z(HER2:342) were determined in SKOV-3 xenografted nude mice. The results showed that the Affibody molecules were efficiently labeled with technetium-99m. The labeled conjugates were highly stable in vitro with preserved HER2-binding capacity. The use of glutamic acid in the chelator sequences for (99m)Tc-labeling of Z(HER2:342) reduced the hepatobiliary excretion 3-fold with a single Gly-to-Glu substitution and 10-fold with three Gly-to-Glu substitutions. (99m)Tc-maEEE-Z(HER2:342) showed a receptor-specific tumor uptake of 7.9 +/- 1.0 %IA/g and a tumor-to-blood ratio of 38 at 4 h pi. Gamma-camera imaging with (99m)Tc-maEEE-Z(HER2:342) could detect HER2-expressing tumors in xenografts already at 1 h pi. It was concluded that peptide synthesis for the coupling of chelator sequences to Affibody molecules for (99m)Tc labeling is an efficient way to modify the in vivo kinetics. Increased hydrophilicity, combined with improved stability of the mercaptoacetyl-triglutamyl chelator, resulted in favorable biodistribution, making (99m)Tc-maEEE-Z(HER2:342) a promising tracer for clinical imaging of HER2 overexpression in tumors.
,   Copper phosphide or arsenide complexes, [Cu(EPh(2))(neo)] (E = P, As, neo = 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline; trivial name: neocuprine) react selectively with the N-protected brominated serine derivatives, 2-(S)-(alkoxycarbonylamino)-3-bromomethylpropionates ((ROCO)SerBr, : R = PhCH(2), : tBu, : Me) to give the corresponding phosphanylated or arsanylated amino acids, (ROCO)SerPhos (: Phos = PPh(2)) and (Z)SerArs (Ars = AsPh(2), Z = PhCH(2)OCO). The dipeptide (Z)AlaSerPhos was likewise prepared. The phosphanes , and the arsane reacted cleanly with [Rh(2)(micro-Cl)(2)(cod)(2)] to give the rhodium(I) complexes [RhCl(cod)((Z)SerPhos)] , [RhCl(cod)((Boc)SerPhos)] (Boc = tBuOCO), [RhCl(cod)((Z)AlaSerPhos)] , and [RhCl(cod)((Z)SerArs)] which were characterized by X-ray diffraction studies. A common structural feature is an intramolecular (N)H[dot dot dot]Cl(Rh)-hydrogen bridge which according to NMR investigations remains intact in solution. The abstraction of chloride from the coordination sphere of Rh(I) in or has a profound structural impact. While in and , the ligands bind in a monodentate fashion, via the phosphorus atom only, they serve as bidentate ligands via the phosphorus centre and the peptidic C=O group in [Rh(cod)(kappa(2)-(Z)SerPhos)]PF(6) and [Rh(cod)(kappa(2)-(Z)AlaSerPhos)]PF(6). This causes also the amino acid residue structures to change from alpha-helix type in and to a beta-sheet type in both. Addition of chloride to and fully re-establishes the structures of both. The complexes [RhCl(cod)((Z)SerPhos)] and [RhCl(cod)((Boc)SerPhos)] show good activities in homogeneously catalyzed hydrogenations of olefins while the dipeptide complex is less active. Phosphane addition to greatly diminishes the catalytic activity. The cationic complex [Rh(cod)(kappa(2)-(Z)AlaSerPhos)]PF(6) shows low activity which, however, is greatly increased by addition of one equivalent of phosphane.
,   Zymomonas mobilis ZM4 is a Gram-negative bacterium that can efficiently produce ethanol from various carbon substrates, including glucose, fructose, and sucrose, via the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. However, systems metabolic engineering is required to further enhance its metabolic performance for industrial application. As an important step towards this goal, the genome-scale metabolic model of Z. mobilis is required to systematically analyze in silico the metabolic characteristics of this bacterium under a wide range of genotypic and environmental conditions. genome-scale metabolic model of Z. mobilis ZM4, ZmoMBEL601, was reconstructed based on its annotated genes, literature, physiological and biochemical databases. The metabolic model comprises 579 metabolites and 601 metabolic reactions (571 biochemical conversion and 30 transport reactions), built upon extensive search of existing knowledge. Physiological features of Z. mobilis were then examined using constraints-based flux analysis in detail as follows. First, the physiological changes of Z. mobilis as it shifts from anaerobic to aerobic environments (i.e. aerobic shift) were investigated. Then the intensities of flux-sum, which is the cluster of either all ingoing or outgoing fluxes through a metabolite, and the maximum in silico yields of ethanol for Z. mobilis and Escherichia coli were compared and analyzed. Furthermore, the substrate utilization range of Z. mobilis was expanded to include pentose sugar metabolism by introducing metabolic pathways to allow Z. mobilis to utilize pentose sugars. Finally, double gene knock-out simulations were performed to design a strategy for efficiently producing succinic acid as another example of application of the genome-scale metabolic model of Z. mobilis. genome-scale metabolic model reconstructed in this study was able to successfully represent the metabolic characteristics of Z. mobilis under various conditions as validated by experiments and literature information. This reconstructed metabolic model will allow better understanding of Z. mobilis metabolism and consequently designing metabolic engineering strategies for various biotechnological applications.
,   The simulation of the B--Z-DNA transition by using space-filling models of the dimer d(C-G) shows the possibility of hydrogen-bond formation between the N-2 amino group of the partially rotated guanine and one of the 5'-phosphate oxygens of deoxyguanylic acid. To probe the importance of this postulated interaction, analogs of the hexamer d(C-G)3 were synthesized. These analogs contained a methylphosphonate linkage, of distinct stereochemistry, which replaced the first 5'-phosphate linkage of deoxyguanosine. The CD spectra in high salt concentration showed that the hexamer containing a methylphosphonate linkage with the RP stereochemistry formed Z-DNA to the same extent as d(C-G)3, whereas the hexamer containing a methylphosphonate linkage with the SP stereochemistry did not form Z-DNA. These results are consistent with a mechanism in which an interaction between the N-2 amino group of guanine and the prochiral SP oxygen of deoxyguanosine 5'-phosphate kinetically controls the formation of Z-DNA. A water bridge between the N-2 amino group of guanine and the 3'-phosphate oxygen of deoxyguanylic acid has been implicated in the stabilization of Z-DNA. To probe the importance of this water bridge, two additional analogs of the hexamer d(C-G)3 were synthesized. These analogs contained a methylphosphonate linkage, of distinct stereochemistry, that replaced the first deoxyguanosine 3'-phosphate. The CD spectra showed that the hexamer containing a methylphosphonate linkage of the RP stereochemistry underwent the transition to Z-DNA to the same extent as d(C-G)3, whereas the hexamer containing a methylphosphonate linkage of the SP stereochemistry underwent the transition to Z-DNA to a 35% lesser extent. Thus the water bridge involving the prochiral SP oxygen provides modest stabilization energy for Z-DNA. These studies, therefore, suggest that the B--Z-DNA transition is regulated both thermodynamically and kinetically through hydrogen-bond interactions involving phosphate oxygens and the N-2 amino group of guanine.
,   The aim of the study was to assess skeletal status in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). One hundred twenty-three patients with ESRD (57 patients with diabetes: 9 type 1 and 48 type 2) and 66 nondiabetic patients were evaluated. Control group comprised 1541 subjects (614 males and 927 females). Diabetes and/or renal insufficiency was the only reason of bone disease and, in control group, no factors known to influence bone metabolism (chronic diseases or prolonged medications) were noted. Skeletal status was evaluated by quantitative ultrasound measurements at the hand phalanges using DBM 1200 (IGEA, Carpi, Italy), which measures amplitude-dependent speed of sound (Ad-SoS [m/s]). Because of some differences in mean age in subgroups of patients and controls, comparisons were performed using values of Z-score. In all diabetic patients, Z-score was significantly higher compared with nondiabetics (p < 0.05). In all type 1 diabetes patients, Z-score was significantly lower than in all nondiabetic patients (p < 0.05) and in patients with type 2 diabetes (p < 0.001). Z-score was also significantly lower in type 2 diabetics than in nondiabetic females (p < 0.00001) but did not differ in males. Comparisons between Z-scores in controls and patients showed that Z-score in nondiabetic females was significantly lower than in female controls (p < 0.000001), and in nondiabetic males--diabetic type 2 males as well as females--Z-score did not differ vs. results in adequate control group. Z-score was significantly lower in patients with diabetes type 1 vs. all controls (p < 0.001). Correlation analysis showed in all nondiabetic patients that Z-score was negatively affected by duration time of dialysis (r = -0.37, p < 0.01) and parathyroid hormone (PTH) serum level (r = -0.35, p < 0.01). In patients with type 1 diabetes, only PTH influenced significantly Z-score (r = -0.76, p < 0.05) and, in patients with type 2 diabetes, no significant correlations were obtained. Subjects with type 1 diabetes seemed to be sensitive for skeletal disturbances in a course of renal insufficiency, whereas subjects with type 2 diabetes did not show such skeletal pathology as shown by ultrasound measurements at hand phalanges.
,   Using in situ hybridization and immunoblot analysis, the present studies identified G(z) mRNA and G(z)-protein in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. The role of G(z)-proteins in hypothalamic 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling was examined in vivo. Activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors increases the secretion of oxytocin and ACTH, but not prolactin. Intracerebroventricular infusion (3-4 d) of G(z) antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, with different sequences and different phosphorothioate modification patterns, reduced the levels of G(z)-protein in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, whereas missense oligodeoxynucleotides had no effect. Neither antisense nor missense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment altered basal plasma levels of ACTH, oxytocin, or prolactin, when compared with untreated controls. An antisense-induced decrease in hypothalamic G(z)-protein levels was paralleled by a significant decrease in the oxytocin and ACTH responses to the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-dipropylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). In contrast, the prolactin response to 8-OH-DPAT (which cannot be blocked by 5-HT(1A) antagonists) was not inhibited by G(z) antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. G(z)-proteins are the only members of the G(i)/G(o)-protein family that are not inactivated by pertussis toxin. In a control experiment, pertussis toxin treatment (1 microgram/5 microliter, i.c.v.; 48 hr before the 8-OH-DPAT challenge) did not inhibit the ACTH response, potentiated the oxytocin response, and eliminated the prolactin response to 8-OH-DPAT. Thus, pertussis toxin-sensitive G(i)/G(o)-proteins do not mediate the 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated increase in ACTH and oxytocin secretion. Combined, these studies provide the first in vivo evidence for a key role of G(z)-proteins in coupling hypothalamic 5-HT(1A) receptors to effector mechanisms.
,   z overscanning in multidetector (MD) helical CT scanning is prerequisite for the interpolation of acquired data required during image reconstruction and refers to the exposure of tissues beyond the boundaries of the volume to be imaged. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of z overscanning on the patient effective dose from helical MD CT examinations. The Monte Carlo N-particle radiation transport code was employed in the current study to simulate CT exposure. The validity of the Monte Carlo simulation was verified by (a) a comparison of calculated and measured standard computed tomography dose index (CTDI) dosimetric data, and (b) a comparison of calculated and measured dose profiles along the z axis. CTDI was measured using a pencil ionization chamber and head and body CT phantoms. Dose profiles along the z axis were obtained using thermoluminescence dosimeters. A commercially available mathematical anthropomorphic phantom was used for the estimation of effective doses from four standard CT examinations, i.e., head and neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis, and trunk studies. Data for both axial and helical modes of operation were obtained. In the helical mode, z overscanning was taken into account. The calculated effective dose from a CT exposure was normalized to CTDI(free in air). The percentage differences in the normalized effective dose between contiguous axial and helical scans with pitch = 1, may reach 13.1%, 35.8%, 29.0%, and 21.5%, for head and neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis, and trunk studies, respectively. Given that the same kilovoltage and tube load per rotation were used in both axial and helical scans, the above differences may be attributed to z overscanning. For helical scans with pitch = 1, broader beam collimation is associated with increased z overscanning and consequently higher normalized effective dose value, when other scanning parameters are held constant. For a given beam collimation, the selection of a higher value of reconstructed image slice width increases the normalized effective dose. In conclusion, z overscanning may significantly affect the patient effective dose from CT examinations performed on MD CT scanners. Therefore, an estimation of the patient effective dose from MD helical CT examinations should always take into consideration the effect of z overscanning.
,   The catalytic cycle of numerous enzymes involves the coupling between proton transfer and electron transfer. Yet, the understanding of this coordinated transfer in biological systems remains limited, likely because its characterization relies on the controlled but experimentally challenging modifications of the free energy changes associated with either the electron or proton transfer. We have performed such a study here in Photosystem II. The driving force for electron transfer from Tyr(Z) to P(680)(*+) has been decreased by approximately 80 meV by mutating the axial ligand of P(680), and that for proton transfer upon oxidation of Tyr(Z) by substituting a 3-fluorotyrosine (3F-Tyr(Z)) for Tyr(Z). In Mn-depleted Photosystem II, the dependence upon pH of the oxidation rates of Tyr(Z) and 3F-Tyr(Z) were found to be similar. However, in the pH range where the phenolic hydroxyl of Tyr(Z) is involved in a H-bond with a proton acceptor, the activation energy of the oxidation of 3F-Tyr(Z) is decreased by 110 meV, a value which correlates with the in vitro finding of a 90 meV stabilization energy to the phenolate form of 3F-Tyr when compared to Tyr (Seyedsayamdost et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128,1569-1579). Thus, when the phenol of Y(Z) acts as a H-bond donor, its oxidation by P(680)(*+) is controlled by its prior deprotonation. This contrasts with the situation prevailing at lower pH, where the proton acceptor is protonated and therefore unavailable, in which the oxidation-induced proton transfer from the phenolic hydroxyl of Tyr(Z) has been proposed to occur concertedly with the electron transfer to P(680)(*+). This suggests a switch between a concerted proton/electron transfer at pHs < 7.5 to a sequential one at pHs > 7.5 and illustrates the roles of the H-bond and of the likely salt-bridge existing between the phenolate and the nearby proton acceptor in determining the coupling between proton and electron transfer.
,   Clinical studies revealed several performance deficiencies with alumina- and zirconia-based all-ceramic restorations: fracture; poor aesthetic properties of ceramic cores (particularly zirconia cores); and difficulty in achieving a strong ceramic-resin-based cement bond. We aim to address these issues by developing a functionally graded glass/zirconia/glass (G/Z/G) structure with improved damage resistance, aesthetics, and cementation properties.ng a glass powder composition developed in our laboratory and a commercial fine zirconia powder, we have successfully fabricated functionally graded G/Z/G structures. The microstructures of G/Z/G were examined utilizing a scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The crystalline phases present in G/Z/G were identified by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Young's modulus and hardness of G/Z/G were derived from nanoindentations. Critical loads for cementation radial fracture in G/Z/G plates (20mmx20mm, 1.5 or 0.4mm thick) bonded to polycarbonate substrates were determined by loading with a spherical indenter. Parallel studies were conducted on homogeneous yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (Y-TZP) controls. G/Z/G structure consists of an outer surface aesthetic glass layer, a graded glass-Y-TZP layer, and a dense Y-TZP interior. The Young's modulus and hardness increase from surface to interior following power-law relations. For G/Z/G plates of 1.5 and 0.4mm thick, critical loads for cementation radial fracture were 1990+/-107N (mean+/-S.D., n=6) and 227+/-20N (mean+/-S.D., n=6), respectively, which were approximately 30 and 50% higher than those for their monolithic Y-TZP counterparts (1388+/-90N for 1.5mm and 113+/-10N for 0.4mm thick; mean+/-S.D., n=6 for each thickness). A 1-sample t-test revealed significant difference (p<0.001) in critical loads for radial fracture of G/Z/G and homogeneous Y-TZP for both specimen thicknesses. results indicate that functionally graded G/Z/G structures exhibit improved damage resistance, aesthetics, and potentially cementation properties compared to homogeneous Y-TZP.
,   Recent studies suggest that caspase-3-mediated mechanisms are essential for neuronal plasticity. N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Asp(OMe)-Glu(OMe)-Val- Asp(OMe)-fluoromethyl ketone (z-DEVD-fmk), a caspase inhibitor with predominant specificity toward caspase-3, has been shown to block long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices. Intrahippocampal infusion of a caspase-3 inhibitor to rats has been shown to significantly impair spatial memory in the water maze. The present work was designed to study whether i.c.v. administration of a caspase-3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk impairs learning in other tasks related to specific forms of memory in rats. The rats received bilateral injections of z-DEVD-fmk or N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Phe-Ala-fluoromethyl ketone (z-FA-fmk) ("control" peptide) at a dose of 3 nmol. Administration of z-DEVD-fmk significantly decreased the number of avoidance reactions in some blocks of trials in the active avoidance (shuttle box) learning, while z-FA-fmk had no effect as compared with intact rats. However, only a slight effect of the caspase inhibitor across the session was found. z-DEVD-fmk impaired development of some essential components of the two-way active avoidance performance, such as escape reaction, conditioned fear reaction, and inter-trial crossings. Measurement of caspase-3 activity in rat brain regions involved in active avoidance learning revealed most expressed z-DEVD-fmk-related inhibition of the enzyme activity (about 30%) in the fronto-parietal cortex. A similar effect was close to significant in the hippocampus, but not in the other cerebral structures studied. In primary cultures of cerebellar neurons z-DEVD-fmk (2-50 microM) inhibited caspase-3 activity by 60-87%. We suggest that moderate inhibition of caspase-3 resulting from the central administration of z-DEVD-fmk to rats may impair active avoidance learning. Taking into account previous data on the involvement of neuronal caspase-3 in neuroplasticity phenomena we assume that the enzyme may be important for selected forms of learning.
,   Zeranol (Z) is a semi-synthetic mycotoxin that is used in some countries as a growth-promoting agent in livestock. In view of the known oestrogenic actions by Z and certain Z analogues, significant concerns exist with regard to the presence of Z residues in human foods and the potential for untoward effects, including carcinogenicity within the reproductive system. In order to confirm that foods are free from harmful Z residues, regulators need a quick and reliable analytical method that can be used for routine confirmation of Z-positive samples identified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) screening. In this study the authors have developed and validated a simple and rapid high-performance liquid chromatography method incorporating ultraviolet (UV) absorbance (wavelength 274 nm) and electrochemical (EC) dual-mode detection for simultaneous determination of Z-related mycotoxins produced from mouldy grain matrices, including rice, soybean and corn flakes.overies for all analytes were around 80% and the limits of detection ranged from 10 to 25 ng mL(-1) for UV and from 50 to 90 ng mL(-1) for EC detection with good accuracy and reproducibility. Differential profiles and occurrence rates of Z, β-zearalenol, β-zearalanol and α-zearalenol in naturally moulded grain matrices were observed, indicating different metabolite patterns and possibly grain-specific effects of mycotoxin exposure for humans and animals. The strength of this dual detection method lies in its selectivity characterised by a carbon screen-printed electrode such that aflatoxin interference is precluded. combined dual detection technique affords quick and reliable semi-confirmative and quantitative information on multiple types of Z analogues in mouldy grains without the necessity of using expensive mass spectrometry. The method is considered a superior supplement to ELISA, which only screens total Z immunoreactivity.
,   The interaction of sanguinarine and ethidium with right-handed (B-form), left-handed (Z-form) and left-handed protonated (designated as H(L)-form) structures of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) and poly(dG-me5dC).poly(dG-me5dC) was investigated by measuring the circular dichroism and UV absorption spectral analysis. Both sanguinarine and ethidium bind strongly to the B-form DNA and convert the Z-form and the H(L)-form back to the bound right-handed form. Circular dichroic data also show that the conformation at the binding site is right-handed, even though adjacent regions of the polymer have a left-handed conformation either in Z-form or in H(L)-form. Both the rate and extent of B-form to Z-form transition were decreased by sanguinarine and ethidium under ionic conditions that otherwise favour the left-handed conformation of the polynucleotides. The rate of decrease is faster in the case of ethidium as compared to that of sanguinarine. Scatchard analysis of the spectrophotometric data shows that sanguinarine binds strongly to both the polynucleotides in a non-cooperative manner under B-form conditions, in sharp contrast to the highly-cooperative binding under Z-form and H(L)-form conditions. Correlation of binding isotherms with circular dichroism data indicates that the cooperative binding of sanguinarine under the Z-form and the H(L)-form conditions is associated with a sequential conversion of the polymer from a left-handed to a bound right-handed conformation. Determination of bound alkaloid concentration by spectroscopic titration technique and the measurement of circular dichroic spectra have enabled us to calculate the number of base pairs of Z-form and H(L)-form that adopt a right-handed conformation for each bound alkaloid. Analysis reveals that 2-3 base pairs (bp) of Z-form of poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC) and poly(dG-me5dC).poly(dG-me5dC) switch to the right-handed form for each bound sanguinarine, while approximately same number of base pairs switch to the bound right-handed form in complexes with H(L)-form of these polynucleotides. Comparative binding analysis shows that ethidium also converts approximately 2 bp of Z-form or H(L)-form to bound right-handed form under same experimental conditions. Since sanguinarine binds preferentially to alternating GC sequences, which are capable of undergoing the B to Z or B to H(L) transition, these effects may be an important part in understanding its extensive biological activities.
,   A study on the interactions between CH(3)Hg(+) and some S, N and O donor ligands (2-mercaptopropanoic acid (thiolactic acid (H(2)TLA)), 3-mercaptopropanoic acid (H(2)MPA), 2-mercaptosuccinic acid (thiomalic acid (H(3)TMA)), D,L-penicillamine (H(2)PSH), L-cysteine (H(2)CYS), glutathione (H(3)GSH), N,N'-bis(3-aminopropyl)-1-4-diaminobutane (spermine (SPER)), 1,2,3,4,5,6-benzenehexacarboxylic acid (mellitic acid (H(6)MLT)) and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (H(4)EDTA)) is reported. The speciation models in aqueous solution and the possible structures of the complexes formed are discussed on the basis of potentiometric, calorimetric, UV spectrophotometric and electrospray mass spectrometric results. For the CH(3)Hg(+)-S donor ligand systems, the formation of ML(1-z) and MLH(2-z) complex species is observed, together with a diprotonated MLH(2)(3-z) species for CYS(2-), PSH(2-) and GSH(3-) and the mixed hydrolytic one ML(OH)(-z) for TLA(2-) and MPA(2-). The dependence of the stability on ionic strength and on temperature is also analysed. In the other CH(3)Hg(+)-L systems (L = MLT(6-), SPER and EDTA(4-)), ML(1-z), MLH(2-z) and MLH(2)(3-z) complex species are formed, together with the MLH(3)(4-z) species for SPER, the mixed hydrolytic ML(OH)(-z) one for SPER and EDTA, and the M(2)L(2-z) for EDTA only. On the basis of the speciation models proposed, the sequestering ability of the ligands towards methylmercury(II) cation is evaluated. All S donor ligands show a good sequestering power (at 10(-11) mol L(-1) level, in the pH range 4 to 8) following the trend MPA(2-) < PSH(2-) < GSH(3-) < TLA(2-) < CYS(2-) < TMA(3-), while significantly lower is the sequestering ability of MLT, SPER and EDTA (at 10(-3)-10(-5) mol L(-1) level, in the pH range 4 to 8).
,   Sodium picosulfate (PICO-Na) is a member of the polyphenolic group of stimulant laxatives. Its major metabolites in humans are its active aglycone BHPM (bis-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-pyridyl-2-methane), the monoglucuronide (M1) and the monosulfate (M2) of BHPM. A sensitive, specific and rapid liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was established and validated for the simultaneous determination of picosulfate (PICO) and its three major metabolites in human plasma to investigate the pharmacokinetics of PICO and its major metabolites. Following protein precipitation with acetonitrile, chromatographic separation was achieved on a Luna 5u C(18)(2) column using gradient elution starting with 10% of 10mM ammonium acetate followed by increasing percentages of acetonitrile to eliminate interferences due to in-source conversion of the conjugated metabolites. Detection was performed on a tandem mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ionization source operated in the positive mode, using the transitions of m/z 438.1→m/z 278.1 for PICO, m/z 278.1→m/z 184.2 for BHPM, m/z 454.1→m/z 184.2 for M1, and m/z 358.1→m/z 184.2 summed with m/z 358.1→m/z 278.1 for M2. Deuterium labeled compounds of the analytes were used as the internal standard, two of which, M1-d(12) and M2-d(12), were synthesized in-house. The method was validated in concentration ranges of 0.150-40.0 ng/mL for PICO and M2, 0.600-160 ng/mL for BHPM, and 0.045-12.0 ng/mL for M1 with acceptable accuracy and precision. The method was successfully applied to characterize the pharmacokinetic profiles of PICO and its metabolites in healthy volunteers after a single oral administration of 5mg PICO-Na.
,   Inhibitory treatment by acetate, followed by illumination and rapid freezing, is known to trap the S(2)Y(Z)(*) state of the O(2)-evolving complex (OEC) in photosystem II (PS II). An EPR spectrum of this state exhibits broad split signals due to the interaction of the tyrosyl radical, Y(Z)(*), with the S = 1/2 S(2) state of the Mn(4) cluster. We present a novel approach to analyze S(2)Y(Z)(*) spectra of one-dimensionally (1-D) oriented acetate-inhibited PS II membranes to determine the magnitude and relative orientation of the S(2)Y(Z)(*) dipolar vector within the membrane. Although there exists a vast body of EPR data on isolated spins in oriented membrane sheets, the present study is the first of its kind on dipolar-coupled electron spin pairs in such systems. We demonstrate the feasibility of the technique and establish a rigorous treatment to account for the disorder present in partially oriented 1-D membrane preparations. We find that (i) the point-dipole distance between Y(Z)(*) and the Mn(4) cluster is 7.9 +/- 0.2 A, (ii) the angle between the interspin vector and the thylakoid membrane normal is 75 degrees, (iii) the g(z)()-axis of the Mn(4) cluster is 70 degrees away from the membrane normal and 35 degrees away from the interspin vector, and (iv) the exchange interaction between the two spins is -275 x 10(-)(4) cm(-)(1), which is antiferromagnetic. Due to the sensitivity of EPR line shapes of oriented spin-coupled pairs to the interspin distance, the present study imposes a tighter constraint on the Y(Z)-Mn(4) point-dipole distance than obtained from randomly oriented samples. The geometric constraints obtained from the 1-D oriented sample are combined with published models of the structure of Mn-depleted PS II to propose a location of the Mn(4) cluster. A structure in which Y(Z) is hydrogen bonded to a manganese-bound hydroxide ligand is consistent with available data and favors maximal orbital overlap between the two redox center that would facilitate direct electron- and proton-transfer steps.
,   A starter culture system that produced both acid and nisin at acceptable rates in milk for manufacture of Gouda cheese was developed using nisin Z-producing L. lactis subsp. lactis biovar. diacetylactis UL 719 (UL 719) and a commercial Flora Danica (FD) starter culture. Different compositions of mixed cultures (0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6 or 0.8% UL 719 with 1.4% FD) were tested for acidification and nisin Z production in milk after 12 h incubation at 30 degrees C. The 0.6/1.4% combination, selected as the optimal mixture of starter cultures, acidified milk to a suitable pH and produced nisin Z at a high concentration of 512 IU/ml. With this optimal combination, FD numbers of citrate-fermenting and non-fermenting bacteria did not change compared with the control (1.4% FD). However, with 0.8% of L. lactis strain UL 719 and 1.4% of the FD starter culture, the numbers of citrate-fermenting and non-fermenting bacteria in fermented milk decreased compared with those obtained when milk was inoculated with 0.2, 0.4 or 0.6% of UL 719 added to 1.4% FD or control cultures (1.4% FD). Mixed starter culture ratios 0.6/1.4%, 0.4/1.4% and 0.5/1.4% (UL 719/FD) were used to manufacture nisin Z containing Gouda cheese which was ripened up to 45 weeks. The composition of control cheeses made with 1.4% FD, and nisin Z-containing Gouda cheeses were similar with respect to percent moisture, fat, salt and protein. During the ripening period, the cell counts observed were approximately two logs higher in cheese made with the 0.6/1.4% mixed starter culture than in control cheese. In experimental cheese produced with 0.6/1.4% (UL 719/FD) mixed starter culture, nisin activity increased from 256 IU/g at the end of manufacture to a maximum of 512 IU/g after 6 weeks of ripening; the levels then decreased to 128 and 32 IU/g after 27 and 45 weeks of ripening, respectively. In contrast, nisin Z was not detected in experimental cheeses made with 0.4/1.4% or 0.5/1.4% (UL 719/FD) mixed starters. Using an affinity purified anti-nisin polyclonal antibody, anti-rabbit gold-conjugate and transmission electron microscopy, nisin Z was found to be localized in the cheese matrix, in fat globules, in the casein phase and concentrated at the fat-casein interface. After 27 weeks of ripening, nisin Z was detected preferentially in the fat globules of the experimental cheese.
,   The aim of this study was to assess pulmonary function and its predictors in very low birth weight (birth weight ≤1,500 g) children (VLBWc) with or without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), born at gestational age ≤32 weeks at a single tertiary center during 1996-1999, after the introduction of surfactant therapy.the 120 surviving VLBW children, 48 (40%) VLBWc (22 with prior-BPD) at age 8.5 ± 1.0 years and 46 age-matched controls (8.8 ± 1.4 years) born at term, underwent lung function study.usted values (z-score) of forced vital capacity (z-FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (z-FEV1), forced expiratory flow 25-75% (z-FEF25-75), carbon monoxide lung diffusion capacity (z-DLCO), and DLCO/alveolar volume (z-DLCO/VA) were significantly lower than controls (mean difference, 95% CI: -1.35, -1.81 to -0.90, P < 0.001; -1.31, -1.73 to -0.90, P < 0.001; -0.87, -1.29 to -0.46, P < 0.001; -0.98, -1.72 to -0.23, P < 0.001; -0.70, -1.22 to -0.18, P < 0.05; respectively). Residual volume (z-RV) and RV/total lung capacity (RV/TLC) ratio (%) were significantly higher in VLBWc than controls (mean difference, 95% CI: 1.06, 0.44 to 1.68, P < 0.001; 9.54%, 5.73 to 13.3%, P < 0.001; respectively). No differences were found in lung function between VLBWc (no-BPD vs. BPD) with the exception of a significant higher RV/TLC ratio in the BPD-subgroup (mean difference, 95% CI: 7.0%, 0.4 to 13%, P = 0.03). Lung function abnormalities were found in 30 (63%) VLBWc with evidence of airway obstruction and diffusing capacity impairment. A weak relationship was observed between gestational age with z-FVC (r = 0.30, P = 0.04), birth weight with z-FEV1 (r = 0.30, P = 0.04) and RV/TLC ratio (r = -0.49, P = 0.001). The duration of oxygen treatment correlated negatively with the z-DLCO/Va (r = -0.5, P = 0.02). No differences were found in FeNO levels between VLBWc and controls.Wc at school age showed lung function abnormalities characterized by airway obstruction, hyperinflation, and diffusion impairment. Neonatal lung damage together with preterm birth may play a role in worsening the functional respiratory outcome.
,   To evaluate the relationship between first-trimester crown-rump length (CRL) and birthweight (BW) Z scores.rospective cohort study. tertiary centres in France.ee hundred and seventeen pregnancies conceived through assisted reproductive techniques between April 2001 and December 2008.used CRL and worked forward to BW. Only pregnancies examined during the first trimester by an Fetal Medicine Foundation-certified operator were included. CRL was expressed as Z scores, and BW was transformed into Z scores by taking gestational age and gender into account. The influence of abnormal first-trimester CRL Z scores on BW was examined.ght and gestational age at birth.th weight was significantly greater in babies with larger CRL: BW Z scores (± SD) were -0.36 (± 1.05), -0.27 (± 0.97), -0.10 (± 1.04) and 0.13 (± 0.96) in the first, second, third and fourth quartiles of CRL Z scores, respectively (P = 0.01). In contrast, there was no difference in gestational length according to the quartiles of the CRL Z scores. The CRL Z score was a significant predictor of the BW Z score (β = 0.17, P = 0.001). After adjustment for maternal body mass index, a one-point increase in the first-trimester CRL Z score (i.e. 3.6 mm) was associated with a 39% decrease, 64% increase, 114% increase and 62% increase in the risk of having a BW below the 10th centile [odds ratio (OR), 0.61; 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), 0.39; 0.95; P=0.03], above the 90th centile (OR, 1.64; 95% CI, 1.03; 2.60; P = 0.02), above the 95th centile (OR, 2.14; 95% CI, 1.25; 3.68; P = 0.006) and above 4000 g (OR, 1.62; 95% CI, 1.04; 2.51; P = 0.04), respectively.iations in BW may be partly explained by differences in growth trajectories that may express as early as the first trimester.
,   N-Benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Phe-amide (Z-Gly-Phe-NH2), a competitive substrate for metalloendoproteases, mobilizes intracellular Ca2+ and suppresses protein synthesis and processing in a Ca(2+)-dependent, reversible manner. To ascertain whether Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 acts as Ca(2+)-storing organelles, effects of the dipeptide on Ca2+ sequestration by saponin-porated GH3 pituitary cells were examined. Porated preparations sequestered Ca2+ into two compartments with different Ca2+ affinities. Ca2+ accumulation at nM concentrations of free Ca2+ was inhibited by thapsigargin and inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3], enhanced by oxalate and unaffected by oligomycin. Cation accumulation at microM concentrations of free Ca2+ was sensitive to oligomycin but not to thapsigargin. Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 reduced Ca2+ sequestration by both compartments. The dipeptide mobilized Ca2+ from the high-affinity compartment within 1-2 min without affecting Ca2+ uptake. Ca2+ was mobilized more rapidly by Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 and thapsigargin together than by either agent alone. The presence of a thiol-reducing agent was required for Ca2+ mobilization by Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 but not by thapsigargin or Ins(1,4,5)P3. Ca2+ mobilization by Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 could not be attributed to effects on anion-permeability or to actions at Ins(1,4,5)P3 or ryanodine receptors. Results with assorted peptide analogues did not favour suppression of metalloendoprotease activity in the Ca(2+)-mobilizing action of Z-Gly-Phe-NH2. The more hydrophobic analogue Z-L-Tyr-p-nitrophenyl ester was 60-80-fold more potent in mobilizing Ca2+ from intact and porated cells and perturbed the high-affinity Ca(2+)-sequestering compartment selectively. Z-Gly-Phe-NH2 and Z-L-Tyr-p-nitrophenyl ester are proposed to release Ca2+ from the endoplasmic reticulum through an ion pore with affinity for hydrophobic molecules containing internal peptide bonds.
,   To investigate the correlation of the cognitive function and the duration of the illness with the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), by means of an objective diagnostic index of brain imaging, stereotactic extraction estimation (SEE) of 123I-IMP SPECT.examined 123I-IMP SPECT in 24 patients with PD (age = 71.79 +/- 5.18 years; the Mini-Mental State Examination: MMSE score = 21.46 +/- 7.62 points; the duration of the illness = 6.63 +/- 3.91 years; Yahr scale = 3.29 +/- 0.74). A contrast database was created by averaging extracted database sets of the contrast group (numbers = 14 cases; age = 74.64 +/- 5.99 years, the MMSE score > or = 29 points). We applied SEE for Z-score images of three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection analysis (3D-SSP) for 123I-IMP SPECT, and calculated Z*extent ratio by taking advantage of severity of Z-score (the mean value) with extent ratio (%) in the frontal, occipital, temporal, parietal and posterior cingulate cortices, and precuneus, respectively. We investigated the correlation coefficient between the MMSE score and Z*extent ratio, and between the duration of the illness and Z*extent ratio in the six regions. In addition, we compared Z*extent ratio in the six regions between the non-demented group (numbers = 12 patients; MMSE > or = 24 points) and the demented group (numbers =12 patients; E score < or = 23 points).re were negative correlations between the MMSE score and Z*extent ratio in the temporal (p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate cortices (p < 0.05), and positive correlations between the duration of the illness and Z*extent ratio in the frontal (p < 0.01), temporal (p < 0.01), parietal (p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate cortices (p < 0.01). Z*extent ratio was significantly high only in the posterior cingulate cortex(p < 0.05) in the demented group. for Z-score images of 3D-SSP revealed a close relationship between the decline of the MMSE score and the duration of the illness, and the perfusion reduction of the posterior cingulate cortex in patients with PD. These findings suggest that the perfusion reduction of the posterior cingulate cortex reflects the decline of cognitive impairment of patients with PD.
,   To compare bone mineral density (BMD) among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected children with population norms and to determine predictors of BMD in HIV-infected children.al body BMD was measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry in 37 HIV-infected children and nine sibling controls at baseline. Clinical, dietary and anthropometric data were obtained at the time of the dual energy x-ray absorptiometry examination. Age- and gender-adjusted z scores were calculated for BMD, body mass index, weight and height from population standards. Age-adjusted percentiles were determined for dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D. Differences in BMD z scores between HIV-infected children and sibling controls were determined and adjusted for height and weight, as were independent risk factors for lower BMD among infected children. Eighteen HIV-infected children and 5 controls had serial BMD measures.pared with population norms, HIV-infected children had significantly lower BMD z scores (-0.51 SD, P = 0.004), in contrast with controls who had normal z scores (0.38 SD, P = 1.0). However, there was no difference in BMD z scores between HIV-infected children and the small number of sibling controls, adjusted for height and weight. Among HIV-infected children, lower BMD z scores were independently associated with lower weight z scores (P < 0.0001), lower height z scores (P = 0.01), advanced (stage B or C) HIV stage (P = 0.01) and age greater than 8 years (P < 0.0001). In the same model, multivitamin use (P = 0.009) and African American race (P = 0.001) were associated with better BMD z scores, with nevirapine use showing borderline positive effect (P = 0.06). All results were adjusted for Tanner stage. Change in BMD z score over time showed that there was no change or an increase in BMD in 100% of controls but in only 44% of the HIV-infected children (P = 0.09).n compared with population norms, HIV-infected children had lower than expected bone mass for their age and gender that may be attributable to delays in growth, sexual maturity, time (length of HIV infection), ethnicity and disease severity. Dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D were not associated with bone loss, but most children had suboptimal intake. However, multivitamin use was strongly associated with better bone mineral density.
,   We investigated the effects of the novel gastroprokinetic agent Z-338 (N-(N-N'-diisopropylaminoethyl)-[2-(2-hydroxy-4,5-dimethoxybenzoylamino)-1,3-thiazole-4-yl] carboxyamide monohydrochloride trihydrate) on L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents (ICa) in guinea pig gastric myocytes by using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. Bath-applied acetylcholine (ACh) produced biphasic effects on ICa, i.e., enhancement (1-100 nM) and inhibition (1-100 microM), both of which were abolished by pretreatment with atropine (10 microM) or intracellular perfusion of GDPbetaS (500 microM). Z-338 (> or = 1 nM, ED50: 120 nM) mimicked the enhancing effects of ACh, but did not inhibit ICa. The effects of Z-338 and ACh were non-additive and blocked by atropine and GDPbetaS, but not by pertussis toxin (PTX) pretreatment (500 ng/ml). ACh (> or = 1 microM) induced slow inward currents via activation of the muscarinic receptor/PTX-sensitive G-protein pathway, but Z-338 was devoid of these effects. Neither pirenzepine (1 microM), AF-DX116 (1 microM), nor oxybutynin (100 nM) could prevent Z-338 (1 microM) and ACh (10 nM) from enhancing ICa, whilst 4-DAMP (100 nM) blocked the effects of Z-338 and ACh. Bath-application of protein kinase C (PKC) activator PDBu (phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate) (250 nM) enhanced ICa, and conversely, pipette inclusion of PKC inhibitor peptide (150 microM) abolished the effects of ACh and Z-338 on ICa. These results collectively suggest that although contribution of the M3 receptor is not excluded, the major actions of Z-338 on gastric myocytes are potentiation of ICa through activation of M5-like receptor.
,   In voltage-dependent ion channels, the gating of the channels is determined by the movement of the voltage sensor. This movement reflects the rearrangement of the protein in response to a voltage stimulus, and it can be thought of as a net displacement of elementary charges (e0) through the membrane (z: effective number of elementary charges). In this paper, we measured z in Shaker IR (inactivation removed) K+ channels, neuronal alpha 1E and alpha 1A, and cardiac alpha 1C Ca2+ channels using two methods: (a) limiting slope analysis of the conductance-voltage relationship and (b) variance analysis, to evaluate the number of active channels in a patch, combined with the measurement of charge movement in the same patch. We found that in Shaker IR K+ channels the two methods agreed with a z congruent to 13. This suggests that all the channels that gate can open and that all the measured charge is coupled to pore opening in a strictly sequential kinetic model. For all Ca2+ channels the limiting slope method gave consistent results regardless of the presence or type of beta subunit tested (z = 8.6). However, as seen with alpha 1E, the variance analysis gave different results depending on the beta subunit used. alpha 1E and alpha 1E beta 1a gave higher z values (z = 14.77 and z = 15.13 respectively) than alpha 1E beta 2a (z = 9.50, which is similar to the limiting slope results). Both the beta 1a and beta 2a subunits, coexpressed with alpha 1E Ca2+ channels facilitated channel opening by shifting the activation curve to more negative potentials, but only the beta 2a subunit increased the maximum open probability. The higher z using variance analysis in alpha 1E and alpha 1E beta 1a can be explained by a set of charges not coupled to pore opening. This set of charges moves in transitions leading to nulls thus not contributing to the ionic current fluctuations but eliciting gating currents. Coexpression of the beta 2a subunit would minimize the fraction of nulls leading to the correct estimation of the number of channels and z.
,   The aim of this study is to compare metabolic syndrome with syndrome Z growing epidemic in terms of risk factors, demographic variables, and gender differences in our large cohort at southeastern area in Turkey.a of patients admitted to sleep clinic in University of Gaziantep from January 2006 to January 2011 were retrospectively evaluated. ATP III and JNC 7 were used for defining metabolic syndrome and hypertension.a of 761 patients were evaluated. Hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, pulmonary hypertension, and left ventricular hypertrophy were more common in patients with syndrome Z than in patients without metabolic syndrome. Age, waist/neck circumferences, BMI, triglyceride, glucose, and Epworth sleepiness scale score were detected higher, whereas the minimum oxygen saturation during sleep was lower in patients with syndrome Z. Metabolic syndrome was more common in sleep apneic subjects than in controls (58 versus 30 %). Female sleep apneics showed higher rate of metabolic syndrome than those of males (74 versus 52 %). Hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and left ventricular hypertrophy were detected higher in males with syndrome Z than in males without metabolic syndrome. Snoring and excessive daytime sleepiness were detected higher in females with syndrome Z than in females without metabolic syndrome. Systemic/pulmonary hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and left ventricular hypertrophy were more common in females with syndrome Z than in females without metabolic syndrome. Complaints of headache and systemic/pulmonary hypertension were more common among females than males with syndrome Z. Female syndrome Z patients had lower minimum oxygen saturation than male patients with syndrome Z.abolic syndrome in sleep apneic patients is more prevalent than in controls. All metabolic syndrome parameters were significantly different among obstructive sleep apneic patients with respect to gender with more severe coronary risk factors in males.
,   The present study has been inspired by the results of earlier dose measurements in tissue-equivalent materials adjacent to thin foils of aluminum, copper, tin, gold, and lead. Large dose enhancements have been observed in low-Z materials near the interface when this ensemble was irradiated with X-rays of qualities known from diagnostic radiology. The excess doses have been attributed to photo-, Compton, and Auger electrons released from the metal surfaces. Correspondingly, high enhancements of biological effects have been observed in single cell layers arranged close to gold surfaces. The objective of the present work is to systematically survey, by calculation, the values of the dose enhancement in low-Z media facing backscattering materials with a variety of atomic numbers and over a large range of photon energies. Further parameters to be varied are the distance of the point of interest from the interface and the kind of the low-Z material. The voluminous calculations have been performed using the PHOTCOEF algorithm, a proven set of interpolation functions fitted to long-established Monte Carlo results, for primary photon energies between 5 and 250 keV and for atomic numbers varying over the periodic system up to Z = 100. The calculated results correlate well with our previous experimental results. It is shown that the values of the dose enhancement (a) vary strongly in dependence upon Z and photon energy; (b) have maxima in the energy region from 40 to 60 keV, determined by the K and L edges of the backscattering materials; and (c) are valued up to about 130 for "International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) soft tissue" (soft tissue composition recommended by the ICRP) as the adjacent low-Z material. Maximum dose enhancement associated with the L edge occurs for materials with atomic numbers between 50 and 60, e.g., barium (Z = 56) and iodine (Z = 53). Such materials typically serve as contrast media in medical X-ray diagnostics. The gradual reduction in the dose enhancement with increasing distance from the material interface, owed to the limited ranges of the emitted secondary electrons, has been documented in detail. The discussion is devoted to practical radiological aspects of the dose enhancement phenomenon. Cytogenetic effects in cell layers closely proximate to surfaces of medium-Z materials might vary over two orders of magnitude, because the dose enhancement is accompanied by the earlier observed about twofold increase in the low-dose RBEM at a tissue-to-gold interface.
,   Structural changes in staphylococcal protein A (SpA) upon its binding to the constant region (Fc) of immunoglobulin G (IgG) have been studied by nuclear magnetic resonance and circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy. The NMR solution structure of the engineered IgG-binding domain of SpA, the Z domain (an analogue of the B domain of SpA), has been determined by simulated annealing with molecular dynamics, using 599 distance and dihedral angle constraints. Domain Z contains three alpha-helices in the polypeptide segments Lys7 to His18 (helix 1), Glu25 to Asp36 (helix 2), and Ser41 to Ala54 (helix 3). The overall chain fold is an antiparallel three-helical bundle. This is in contrast to the previously determined X-ray structure of the similar SpA domain B in complex with Fc, where helix 3 is not observed in the electron density map [Deisenhofer, J. (1981) Biochemistry 20, 2361-2370], but similar to the solution NMR structure of domain B, which is also a three-helical bundle structure [Gouda, H., et al. (1992) Biochemistry 31, 9665-9672]. In order to characterize possible secondary structural changes associated with IgG binding, far-UV CD spectra were collected for the Z domain, an engineered repeat of this molecule (ZZ), recombinant Fc from IgG subclass 1 (Fc1), recombinant Fc from IgG subclass 3 (Fc3), and mixtures of Z/Fc1, Z/Fc3, ZZ/Fc1, and ZZ/Fc3. Fc3 was included as a control for possible changes of the CD spectrum in the mixture of noncomplexed molecules, since SpA is known not to bind Fc3. From these CD spectra, it was concluded that the third alpha-helix in Z is not disrupted in its complexes with Fc1. Similar results were obtained for the ZZ molecule. However, in both Z and ZZ there are some perturbations in CD spectra at high energy wavelengths (i.e., lambda < 215 nm) accompanying complex formation. On the basis of the combined CD and NMR results, as well as previously described binding studies of Z mutant proteins to Fc1, we conclude that the Z domain maintains its three-helical bundle structure in the Z-Fc complex, though there may be a small structural change involved in the binding mechanism.
,   On the basis of the observed high selective binding to both the human and rat progesterone receptor (PR) in vitro, three 17alpha-iodovinyl-substituted nortestosterone derivatives, i.e., the Z-isomer of 17alpha-iodovinyl-19-nortestosterone (Z-IVNT; Z-IPG1) and both the stereoisomers of 17alpha-iodovinyl-18-methyl-11-methylene-19-nortestosterone (E- and Z-IPG2), were selected for radio-iodination and subsequently evaluated as potential radioligands for PR imaging in human breast cancer. Their target tissue uptake, retention, and uptake selectivity were studied in female rats. The distribution studies revealed that PR-mediated uptake in the uterus and ovaries could only be demonstrated for Z-[123I]IPG2. The target tissue uptake selectivity was, however, low, with the highest uterus-to-nontarget tissue uptake ratios observed at 2-4 h postinjection (p.i.), being 4.4, 1.8, and 7.4 for the uterus-to-blood, -fat, and -muscle ratio, respectively. For Z-[123I]IPG2, distribution was also studied in dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumour-bearing rats and in normal rabbits. Mammary tumour uptake of Z-[123I]IPG2 in the mammary tumour-bearing rat was also found to be PR-specific. In rabbits, higher selective target tissue uptake of Z-[123I]IPG2 was observed than in rats, resulting in uterus-to-blood, -fat, and -muscle ratios of 6.6, 2.2, and 21.3 at 2-4 h p.i., respectively. In conclusion, Z-[123I]IPG2, which displayed high binding affinity for both the human and rat PR in vitro, showed specific PR-mediated target tissue uptake in rats and rabbits in vivo, the uptake selectivity being highest in the latter. Because the binding characteristics appeared to vary between species, a pilot study in breast cancer patients may be needed to decide whether Z-[123I]IPG2 can be of potential use as PR imaging agent in breast cancer.
,   Cross-sectional study of bone mineral density (BMD) in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis of the pancreas. The relationship of BMD values with nutritional status, respiratory function and the cystic transmembrane regulator genotype was also evaluated. expressed as grams of hydroxyapatite/cm2 was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in the lumbar spine (L2-L4) in 41 patients (21 males and 20 women; age range: 4-21 years) with cystic fibrosis of the pancreas and compared with that of 471 normal controls (256 males and 215 women; age range: 1-20 years). Twenty patients were prepubertal, 9 pubertal and 12 young adults.nical repercussion of the disease evaluated by clinical and anthropometric data (weight, height and body mass index) and respiratory function was considered moderate. Height z score (mean [MSE]) was -0.53 (0.28), weight -0.81 (0.21) and body mass index -0.82 (0.12) BMD z score values (mean [MSE]) were -1.14 (0.17) and differed significantly (p < 0.001) from those of normal age- and sex-matched controls. No significant differences were observed between males and women or among prepubertal, pubertal and young adult patients. BMD z score values less than-1 z score were found in 53% and under -2 z score in 8%. Cystic transmembrane regulator genotype was studied in 36 patients (17 were F508/-, 10 F508/F508, 5 G542X/- and 4 diverse) and did not predict bone mineral status. A statistically significant correlation was found between BMD z score values and height z score, weight z score, body mass index z score and clinical assessment according to Shwachman criteria. A negative and statistically significant correlation was observed between BMD z score and functional score. decrease in BMD values in CF patients begins early in life and appears to be related to the degree of clinical expression of the disease.
,   Bone mass and density are low in females with Rett syndrome. This study used Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry to measure annual changes in z-scores for areal bone mineral density (aBMD) and bone mineral content (BMC) in the lumbar spine and total body in an Australian Rett syndrome cohort at baseline and then after three to four years. Bone mineral apparent density (BMAD) was calculated in the lumbar spine. Annual changes in lean tissue mass (LTM) and bone area (BA) were also assessed. The effects of age, genotype, mobility, menstrual status and epilepsy diagnosis on these parameters were also investigated. The baseline sample included 97 individuals who were representative of the total live Australian Rett syndrome population under 30years in 2005 (n=274). Of these 74 had a follow-up scan. Less than a quarter of females were able to walk on their own at follow-up. Bone area and LTM z-scores declined over the time between the baseline and follow-up scans. Mean height-standardised z-scores for the bone outcomes were obtained from multiple regression models. The lumbar spine showed a positive mean annual BMAD z-score change (0.08) and a marginal decrease in aBMD (-0.04). The mean z-score change per annum for those 'who could walk unaided' was more positive for LS BMAD (p=0.040). Total body BMD mean annual z-score change from baseline to follow-up was negative (-0.03). However this change was positive in those who had achieved menses prior to the study (0.03, p=0,040). Total body BMC showed the most negative change (-0.60), representing a decrease in bone mineral content over time. This normalised to a z-score change of 0.21 once adjusted for the reduced lean tissue mass mean z-score change (-0.21) and bone area mean z-score change (-0.14). Overall, the bone mineral content, bone mineral density, bone area and lean tissue mass z-scores for all outcome measures declined, with the TB BMC showing significant decreases. Weight, height and muscle mass appear to have impacts on bone formation and we recommend that nutritional intake should be closely monitored and a physical activity plan developed to optimise bone health. Pubertal progression should also be assessed in conjunction with serial densitometry assessments to track bone mass and density changes over time. 
,   We examined ventilation and metabolism in four rat strains with variation in traits for body weight and/or blood pressure regulation. Sprague-Dawley [SD; 8 males (M), 8 females (F)], Brown Norway (BN; 10 M, 11 F), and Zucker (Z; 11 M, 12 F) rats were compared with Koletsky (K; 11 M, 11 F) rats. With the use of noninvasive plethysmography, frequency, tidal volume, minute ventilation (VE), O2 consumption, and CO2 production were derived at rest during normoxia (room air) and during the 5th minute of exposure to each of the following: hyperoxia (100% O2), hypoxia (10% O2-balance N2), and hypercapnia (7% CO2-balance O2). Statistical methods probed for strain and sex effects, with covariant analysis by body weight, length, and body mass. During resting breathing, strain effects were found with respect to both frequency (BN, Z > K, SD) and tidal volume (SD > BN, Z) but not to VE. Sex influenced frequency (F > M) alone. Z rats had higher values for O2 consumption, CO2 production, and respiratory quotient than the other three strains, with no independent effect by sex. During hyperoxia, frequency was greater in BN and Z than in SD or K rats; SD rats had a larger tidal volume than BN or Z rats; Z rats had a greater VE than K rats; and M had a larger tidal volume than F. Strain differences persisted during hypercapnia, with Z rats exhibiting the highest frequency and VE values. During hypoxic exposure, strain effects were found to influence VE (SD > K, Z), frequency (BN > K), and tidal volume (SD > BN, K, Z). Body mass was only a modest predictor of VE during normoxia, of both VE and tidal volume with hypoxia, hypercapnia, or hyperoxia, and of frequency during hypercapnia. We conclude that strain of rats, more than their body mass or sex, has major and different influences on metabolism, the pattern and level of ventilation during air breathing, and ventilation during acute exposure to hypercapnia or hypoxia.
,   A method is described for the determination of residues of the illegal antibiotic chloramphenicol (CAP) in milk powders. The analyte is quantified by liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS-MS) operating in negative ion multiple reaction monitoring mode (MRM) after a liquid-liquid extraction followed by a clean-up step on solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridge. Because of the presence of two chlorine atoms in the CAP molecule, four specific transition reactions of CAP were monitored by MS-MS in selecting m/z 321 --> 257, 321 --> 152 (35Cl2) and m/z 323 --> 257, 323 --> 152 (37Cl35Cl). Two calibration curves were constructed by plotting the area ratio of m/z 321 --> 152 versus 326 --> 157 and m/z 321 --> 257 versus 326 --> 262 against their corresponding amount ratio. Indeed, even if m/z 321 --> 152 was found to give a higher MS-MS response (calibration curve used by default), an interfering chemical substance was sometimes observed for some milk extracts and not for the transition m/z 321 --> 257. The quantitation method was validated according to the European Union (EU) criteria for the analysis of veterinary drug residues at 0.1, 0.2 and 0.5 microg/kg concentration levels using d5-CAP as internal standard. The decision limit (CCalpha) and detection capability (CCbeta) of CAP in milk were calculated for m/z 321 --> 152 at 0.02 microg/kg and 0.03 microg/kg, respectively, and for m/z 321 --> 257 at 0.02 microg/kg and 0.04 microg/kg, respectively. At the lowest fortification level (i.e. 0.1 microg/kg), repeatability and within-laboratory reproducibility were calculated for m/z 321 --> 257 both at 0.02 microg/kg and for m/z 321 --> 152 at 0.03 and 0.05 microg/kg, respectively. Moreover, the measurement of uncertainty of the analytical method was calculated at the same spiking levels and falls within the precision values of the within-laboratory reproducibility. This method can be applied to several types of milk powders (e.g. full cream, skim) and can serve as a monitoring tool to avoid that unacceptable levels of residues of CAP enter the food chain.
,   Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has become an attractive target for cancer molecular imaging and therapy. Affibody proteins against EGFR have been reported, and thus, we were interested in evaluating their potential for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of EGFR positive cancer. An Affibody analogue (Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907)) binding to EGFR was made through conventional solid phase peptide synthesis. The purified protein was site-specifically coupled with the 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7-tris-aceticacid-10-maleimidethylacetamide (maleimido-mono-amide-DOTA) to produce the bioconjugate, DOTA-Z(EGFR:1907). (64)Cu labeled probe (64)Cu-DOTA-Z(EGFR:1907) displayed a moderate specific activity (5-8 MBq/nmol, 22-35 microCi/microg). Cell uptake assays by pre-incubating without or with 300 times excess unlabeled Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907) showed high EGFR-specific uptake (20% applied activity at 0.5 h) in A431 epidermoid carcinoma cancer cells. The affinity (K(D)) of (64)Cu-DOTA-Z(EGFR:1907) as tested by cell saturation analysis was 20 nM. The serum stability test showed excellent stability of the probe with >95% intact after 4 h of incubation in mouse serum. In vivo small-animal PET imaging showed fast tumor targeting, high tumor accumulation (approximately 10% ID/g at 1 h p.i.), and good tumor-to-normal tissue contrast of (64)Cu-DOTA-Z(EGFR:1907) spiked with a wide dose range of Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907). Bio-distribution studies further demonstrated that the probe had high tumor, blood, liver, and kidney uptakes, while blood radioactivity concentration dropped dramatically at increased spiking doses. Co-injection of the probe with 500 microg of Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907) for blocking significantly reduced the tumor uptake. Thus, (64)Cu-DOTA-Z(EGFR:1907) showed potential as a high tumor contrast EGFR PET imaging reagent. The probe spiked with 50 microg of Ac-Cys-Z(EGFR:1907) improved tumor imaging contrast which may have important clinical applications.
,   Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancy of liver and HCC-related morbidity and mortality remains at high level. Researchers had investigated whether and how reduced E-cadherin expression impacted the prognosis of patients with HCC but the results reported by different teams remain inconclusive.ystematic literature search was performed in all available databases to retrieve eligible studies and identify all relevant data, which could be used to evaluate the correlation between reduced E-cadherin expression and clinicopathological features and prognosis for HCC patients. A fixed or random effects model was used in this meta-analysis to calculate the pooled odds ratios (OR) and weighted mean differences (WMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI).al 2439 patients in thirty studies matched the selection criteria. Aggregation of the data suggested that reduced E-cadherin expression in HCC patients correlated with poor 1-, 3- and 5-year overall survival. The combined ORs were 0.50 (n = 13 studies, 95% CI: 0.37-0.67, Z = 4.49, P<0.00001), 0.39 (n = 13 studies, 95% CI: 0.28-0.56, Z = 5.12, P<0.00001), 0.40 (n = 11 studies, 95% CI: 0.25-0.64, Z = 3.82, P = 0.0001), respectively. Additionally, the pooled analysis denoted that reduced E-cadherin expression negatively impacts recurrence-free survival (RSF) with no significant heterogeneity. The pooled ORs for 1-, 3- and 5- year RSF affected by down-regulated E-cadherin were 0.73 (n = 6 studies, 95% CI: 0.54-1.00, Z = 1.95, P = 0.05), 0.70 (n = 6 studies, 95% CI: 0.52-0.95, Z = 2.32, P = 0.02), 0.66 (n = 5 studies, 95% CI: 0.48-0.90, Z = 2.64, P = 0.008). And what's more, reduced E-cadherin expression tended to be significantly associated with metastasis (OR = 0.31, 95% CI: 0.16-0.60, Z = 3.50, P = 0.0005), vascular invasion (OR = 0.76, 95% CI: 0.59-0.98, Z = 2.14, P = 0.03), advanced differentiation grade (OR = 0.31, 95% CI: 0.21-0.45, Z = 6.04, P<0.00001) and advanced TMN stage (T3/T4 versus T1/T2) (OR = 0.61,95% CI:0.38-0.98, Z = 2.05, P = 0.04).uced E-cadherin expression indicates a poor prognosis for patients with HCC, and it may have predictive potential for prognosis of HCC patients.
,   Radionuclide imaging of insulin-like growth factor type 1 receptor (IGF-1R) expression in tumours might be used for selection of patients who would benefit from IGF-1R-targeted therapy. We have previously shown the feasibility of IGF-1R imaging using the Affibody molecule (111)In-DOTA-His(6)-Z(IGF1R:4551). The use of (99m)Tc instead of (111)In should improve sensitivity and resolution of imaging, and reduce the dose burden to patients. We hypothesized that inclusion of a HEHEHE tag instead of a His(6) tag in Z(IGF1R:4551) would permit its convenient purification using IMAC, enable labelling with [(99m)Tc(CO)(3)](+), and improve its biodistribution.GF1R:4551) was expressed with a HEHEHE tag in the N terminus. The resulting (HE)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) construct was labelled with [(99m)Tc(CO)(3)](+). Targeting of IGF-1R-expressing cells using [(99m)Tc(CO)(3)](+)-(HE)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) was evaluated in vitro and in vivo.)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) was stably labelled with (99m)Tc with preserved specific binding to IGF-1R-expressing DU-145 prostate cancer cells in vitro. In mice, [(99m)Tc(CO)(3)](+)-(HE)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) accumulated in IGF-1R-expressing organs (pancreas, stomach, lung and salivary gland). [(99m)Tc(CO)(3)](+)-(HE)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) demonstrated 3.6-fold lower accumulation in the liver and spleen than (111)In-DOTA-Z(IGF1R:4551). In NMRI nu/nu mice with DU-145 prostate cancer xenografts, the tumour uptake was 1.32 ± 0.11 %ID/g and the tumour-to-blood ratio was 4.4 ± 0.3 at 8 h after injection. The xenografts were visualized using a gamma camera 6 h after injection.m)Tc(CO)(3)](+)-(HE)(3)-Z(IGF1R:4551) is a promising candidate for visualization of IGF-1R expression in malignant tumours.
,   A method for the comprehensive profiling of intact glucosinolates (GLSs), major and minor, occurring in leaves and seeds of rocket salad (Eruca sativa L.) is presented using optimized reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RP-LC) with electrospray ionization (ESI) ion trap mass spectrometry (ITMS). ESI-ITMS in the negative mode was confirmed to be very suitable to analyze these compounds in crude extracts. After extraction from the plant material with methanol/water (70:30 v/v) at 70 degrees C, the analytes of interest were separated on a C18 column using an eluent acidified with formic acid (0.1%) and modified with acetonitrile. All the GLSs found in leaves of rocket salad gave good signals corresponding to the deprotonated precursor ion, [M-H]-. Although the mass spectra also exhibited an analytically important non-covalent adduct ion at [2M-H]-, the structures of glucosinolates were confirmed by extensive sequential MS analysis, thereby substantially improving the identification of unknown compounds. The results obtained not only revealed in leaves of E. sativa at least twelve species of GLSs including seven aliphatic compounds (glucoraphanin with [M-H]- at m/z ratio of 436, glucoerucin at m/z 420, 4-mercaptobutyl-GLS at m/z 406, progoitrin/epiprogoitrin at m/z 388, sinigrin at m/z 358, 4-methylpentyl- and n-hexyl-GLS at m/z 402) and three indole glucosinolates (i.e., three N-heterocyclic compounds: 4-hydroxyglucobrassicin and 5-hydroxyglucobrassicin at m/z 463, and 4-methoxy-glucobrassicin at m/z 477), but also two structurally related compounds containing one intermolecular disulfide linkage (4-(beta-D-glucopyranosyldisulfanyl)butyl-GLS at m/z 600 and a dimeric 4-mercaptobutyl-GLS at m/z 811). This latter symmetric disulfide was previously considered as an artefact formed during extraction of GLSs from vegetative tissues. Glucosinolates were detected in the leaves with a wide range of contents (10-200 micromol/g) and a great variation in the composition. Only three GLSs were identified in seeds of rocket salad, namely glucoraphanin, glucoerucin and 4-methoxyglucobrassicin. As expected, the most abundant GLS in seeds is glucoerucin. The feasibility of the strategy was also demonstrated using a rapeseed extract of certified reference material (BCR367R). The results indicated the usefulness of this method for a rapid, sensitive and comprehensive profiling of the GLS family naturally occurring in extracts of crude plant matter.
,   Subjects with complete androgen insensitivity (CAI) and 5alpha-reductase-2 deficiency (5alphaRD-2) are natural human models to study the direct effect of androgens on bone mineral density (BMD). objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that androgens have a direct effect on BMD in men.s was a prospective, observational study (1989-1999) using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry. study was set in an outpatient specialty referral center. known subjects with these conditions (12 CAI and 16 5alphaRD-2) from diverse sociodemographic backgrounds were recruited for the study.re were no interventions.n Z score and weight-matched Z score at lumbar spine and femoral neck for CAI and 5alphaRD-2 subjects were determined.lve CAI subjects had mean Z score at L2-L4 of -2.84 (+/-0.97, P < 0.001) and a mean weight-matched Z score of -2.52 (+/-0.94, P < 0.001). The mean Z score at the femoral neck was -1.33 (+/-0.91, P < 0.001) and the mean weight-matched Z score was -1.10 (+/-0.82, P = 0.001). Sixteen 5alphaRD-2 subjects had a mean Z score at L2-L4 of -0.84 (+/-1.29, P = 0.02) and a mean weight-matched Z score for 15 of 16 patients of -0.44 (+/-1.08, P = 0.14). The mean Z score at the femoral neck was 0.14 (+/-1.02, P = 0.58) and the mean weight-matched Z score for 15 of 16 patients was 0.49 (+/-0.94, P = 0.06). Therefore, in CAI subjects, BMD was significantly decreased in the spine and hip. 5alphaRD-2 subjects had normal BMD values.Androgens are of direct importance in the development and/or maintenance of BMD; and 2) testosterone and/or low levels of dihydrotestosterone appear to be sufficient for BMD development and/or maintenance.
,   We examined how biophysical properties and neuronal morphology affect the propagation of individual postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) from synaptic inputs to the soma. This analysis is based on evidence that individual synaptic activations do not reduce local driving force significantly in most central neurons, so each synapse acts approximately as a current source. Therefore the spread of PSPs throughout a dendritic tree can be described in terms of transfer impedance (Z(c)), which reflects how a current applied at one location affects membrane potential at other locations. We addressed this topic through four lines of study and uncovered new implications of neuronal morphology for synaptic integration. First, Z(c) was considered in terms of two-port theory and contrasted with dendrosomatic voltage transfer. Second, equivalent cylinder models were used to compare the spatial profiles of Z(c) and dendrosomatic voltage transfer. These simulations showed that Z(c) is less affected by dendritic location than voltage transfer is. Third, compartmental models based on morphological reconstructions of five different neuron types were used to calculate Z(c), input impedance (Z(N)), and voltage transfer throughout the dendritic tree. For all neurons, there was no significant variation of Z(c) with location within higher-order dendrites. Furthermore, Z(c) was relatively independent of synaptic location throughout the entire cell in three of the five neuron types (CA3 interneurons, CA3 pyramidal neurons, and dentate granule cells). This was quite unlike Z(N), which increased with distance from the soma and was responsible for a parallel decrease of voltage transfer. Fourth, simulations of fast excitatory PSPs (EPSPs) were consistent with the analysis of Z(c); peak EPSP amplitude varied <20% in the same three neuron types, a phenomenon that we call "passive synaptic normalization" to underscore the fact that it does not require active currents. We conclude that the presence of a long primary dendrite, as in CA1 or neocortical pyramidal cells, favors substantial location-dependent variability of somatic PSP amplitude. In neurons that lack long primary dendrites, however, PSP amplitude at the soma will be much less dependent on synaptic location.
,   Nuclear aggresomes induced by proteins containing an expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tract are pathologic hallmarks of certain neurodegenerative diseases. Some GFP fusion proteins lacking a polyQ tract may also induce nuclear aggresomes in cultured cells. Here we identify single missense mutations within the basic DNA recognition region of Bam HI Z E B virus replication activator (ZEBRA), an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded basic zipper protein without a polyQ tract, that efficiently induced the formation of nuclear aggresomes. Wild-type (WT) ZEBRA was diffusely distributed within the nucleus. Four non-DNA-binding mutants, Z(R179E), Z(R183E), Z(R190E), and Z(K178D) localized to the periphery of large intranuclear spheres, to discrete nuclear aggregates, and to the cytoplasm. Other non-DNA-binding mutants, Z(N182K), Z(N182E), and Z(S186E), did not exhibit this phenotype. The interior of the spheres contained promyelocytic leukemia and HSP70 proteins. ZEBRA mutants directly induced the nuclear aggresome pathway in cells with and without EBV. Specific cellular proteins (SC35 and HDAC6) and viral proteins (WT ZEBRA, Rta, and BMLF1) but not other cellular or viral proteins were recruited to nuclear aggresomes. Co-transfection of WT ZEBRA with aggresome-inducing mutants Z(R183E) and Z(R179E) inhibited late lytic viral protein expression and lytic viral DNA amplification. This is the first reported instance in which nuclear aggresomes are induced by single missense mutations in a viral or cellular protein. We discuss conformational changes in the mutant viral AP-1 proteins that may lead to formation of nuclear aggresomes.
,   The objectives of this study were first to show adrenocortical response to a long-acting adrenocorticotropic hormone preparation (tetracosactide acetate zinc suspension) (ACTH-Z) and its effect on adrenocortical function in beef cows (Experiment 1) and second to apply the ACTH-Z challenge in dairy cows based on cortisol concentrations in milk collected at routine milking (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, four beef cows in luteal phase were challenged with ACTH-Z, and plasma cortisol concentrations were determined for 48 h after the injection at 30-min to 2-h intervals. A rapid ACTH test was conducted 3 days before and 2 h after the completion of ACTH-Z injection for 48 h to investigate the effect on adrenocortical function. Plasma cortisol concentrations increased significantly 30 min after ACTH-Z injection (p < 0.001), and the high cortisol levels were maintained for approximately 10 h after the injection. In Experiment 2, eight dairy cows were subjected to ACTH-Z challenge 1-2 weeks and 4-5 weeks post-partum. Blood and milk samples were taken at morning and afternoon milking. All the cows showed a significant increase in cortisol concentrations in plasma as well as in skim milk 8 h after ACTH-Z injection 1-2 weeks and 4-5 weeks post-partum (p < 0.001). There was a significant correlation between plasma and skim milk cortisol concentrations 8 h after ACTH-Z challenge (r = 0.74, p < 0.001). The results obtained in this study suggest that elevated levels of plasma cortisol are maintained for approximately 10 h after ACTH-Z treatment without adverse effect on adrenocortical function and a long-acting ACTH-Z challenge based on cortisol concentrations in milk, which were collected at the morning and the afternoon milking, can be a useful tool to monitor adrenocortical function in cows.
,   A protein Z deficiency is presumably related with a threefold risk of venous and arterial thrombosis. Mucosal bleedings and post-operative haematomas can occur more frequently. This is seen in an increased in vivo bleeding time without other plasmatic coagulation disorders or thrombopathies. Pregnancy complications, especially abortions before the 15th week of gestation, are described as well.ce May 2011 the plasmatic concentration of protein Z has been tested in 684 patients of the Hämostaseologicum.74 patients a protein Z deficiency has been found. In other 45 patients protein Z was reduced because of the intake of phenprocoumon or coumadin. Of the 74 patients with diminished protein Z concentration 39 were marginally decreased (protein Z 1000-1500 µg/l). Of the 35 patients with a protein Z concentration <1000 µg/l 12 had had a thrombosis before (6 strokes, 3 DVT or PE, 1 arterial thrombosis, 1 retinal branch vein occlusion, 1 acute hearing loss). 7 had arterial hypertension, 2 suffered from diabetes mellitus. Of the patients who had a thrombosis 6 had a heterozygous factor V Leiden mutation. 10 had a microcirculation disorder (Raynaud's phenomenon), 4 had had bleeding complications before, 3 had a von Willebrand disease type I, 6 patients had had abortions and 4 were healthy. Of the 39 patients with protein Z concentrations between 1000 and 1500 µg/l 18 had experienced a thrombosis before (9 DVT or PE, 3 myocardial infarctions, 1 CHD, 3 strokes, 1 retinal branch vein occlusion, 1 PAOD I, 1 tinnitus). 5 additionally had arterial hypertension. 13 suffered from Raynaud's phenomenon, of which 7 had a hypotension. Of the patients with thromboses 3 had a heterozygous factor V Leiden mutation and one a protein C deficiency. 7 patients had had an abortion before. Bleeding complications were seen in 4 patients, of which 3 suffered from von Willebrand disease type 1.
,   N-(Benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-aspartyl-L-phenylalanine methyl ester (Z-AspPheOMe), a precursor of the aspartame, and N-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-phenylalanyl-Lphenylalanine methyl ester (Z-PhePheOMe) were synthesized from the respective amino acid derivatives with an immobilized thermolysin (EC 3.4.24.4) in ethyl acetate. Various factors affecting the synthesis of these dipeptide precursors were clarified. The initial synthetic rate was the highest at the water content of 3.5% for both reactions. The substrate concentration dependencies of the initial synthetic rate of Z-AspkPheOMe and Z-PhePheOMe with the immobilized enzyme in ethyl acetate were different from those in an aqueous buffer solution saturated with ethyl acetate but similar to those in the aqueous/organic biphasic system using the free enzyme. Particularly, the initial synthetic rate of Z-AspPhOMe increased in order higher than first order with respect to the concentration of L-phenylalanine methyl ester (PheOMe), whereas it decreased sharply with the concentration of N-(benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-aspartic acid (Z-Asp). Such kinetic behavior could be explained by regarding the inside of the immobilized enzyme as being a biphasic mode composed from the organic phase and aqueous phase where the enzymatic reaction takes place. The reaction in the aqueous/organic biphasic system using the free enzyme could be simulated by taking into consideration the partition of the substrate and the initial rate of synthesis in the aqueous buffer saturated with ethyl acetate. Based on this analysis, the rate of reaction with the immobilized enzyme in ethyl acetate could also be predicted. Z-AsPheOMe and Z-PhePheOMe were synthesized by the fed-batch method where the acid component of the substrate was intermittently added during the course of reaction and by the batch method. In the synthesis of Z-AspPheOMe, the synthetic rate and maximum yield of reaction as well as the stability of the immobilized enzyme were higher in the fed-batch reaction than those in the batch reaction. In the synthesis of Z-PhePheOMe, the results obtained by both methods were similar. (c) 1994 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
,   We have attempted to produce a transgenic mouse model of the neonatal liver disease associated with the human PIZ allele. Analysis of a number of transgenic mouse lines carrying either a normal human PIM gene construct or the mutant Z is reported. Using isoelectric focusing analysis of plasma from transgenic mice, we have shown that the human AAT proteins produced in mice are processed in a similar way to their counterparts in humans. By comparing the level of M and Z mRNA in liver with the levels of M and Z proteins in plasma we have inferred that, as in humans, the mutant protein tends to accumulate within the hepatocyte. Accumulation of Z protein has also been demonstrated by immunocytochemistry. Two of the M transgenic lines produce such high levels of the human protein that it, like the Z protein, accumulates as globules. Histological features of livers from 116 mice of different ages and genotypes were examined: 37 non-transgenic, 62 Z transgenic (23 low expressing and 39 high expressing) and 17 M transgenic mice, all high expressing. Cirrhosis or fibrosis was not seen in any animal and we were unable to find any evidence for neonatal liver disease. Some necrosis was seen in all genotypes and this increased significantly with age with one Z line showing significantly more frequent necrosis than any other group. This line, the highest expressing Z line, was back crossed onto 7 different genetic backgrounds but no major differences between the back crosses with respect to liver disease were observed. The mouse model we have developed is compared with other transgenic Z mouse models; none of these is representative of human neonatal liver disease. Our view is that the transgenic animals generated in these experiments may be most useful for investigating the liver manifestations that almost invariably occur in ZZ adults. Alteration of additional factors other than accumulation of Z protein, for example inactivation of the endogenous mouse genes or some environmental challenge, might produce a mouse model with more relevance to neonatal liver disease.
,   To investigate the modifications of antitumor activity and DNA binding mode of transplatin after replacement of one nonleaving group NH(3) by an iminoether group, trans-[PtCl(2)(Z-HN=C(OMe)Me)(NH(3)] and trans-[PtCl(2)(E-HN=C(OMe)Me)(NH(3)] complexes (differing in the Z or E configuration of iminoether, and abbreviated mixed Z and mixed E, respectively), have been synthesized. In a panel of human tumor cell lines, both mixed Z and mixed E show a cytotoxic potency higher than that of transplatin, the mean IC(50) values being 103, 37, and 215 microM, respectively. In vivo mixed Z is more active and less toxic than mixed E in murine P388 leukemia and retains its efficacy against SK-OV-3 human cancer cell xenograft in nude mice. In the reaction with naked DNA, mixed Z forms monofunctional adducts that do not evolve into intrastrand cross-links but close slowly into interstrand cross-links between complementary guanine and cytosine residues. The monofunctional mixed Z adducts are removed by thiourea and glutathione. The interstrand cross-links behave as hinge joints, increasing the flexibility of DNA double helix. The mixed Z, transplatin, and cisplatin interstrand cross-links, as well as mixed Z monofunctional adducts are not specifically recognized by HMG1 protein, which was confirmed to be able to specifically recognize cisplatin d(GpG) intrastrand cross-links. These data demonstrate that the DNA interaction properties of the antitumor-active mixed Z are very similar to those of transplatin, thus suggesting that clinical inactivity of transplatin could not depend upon its peculiar DNA binding mode.
,   To explore changes of serum protein fingerprinting in primary liver cancer (PLC) patients of different Chinese medical syndromes before and after interventional treatment detected by surface enhanced laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS).ally 154 PLC patients were assigned to 5 groups, i.e., Gan depression syndrome (GDS, 37 cases), Pi deficiency syndrome (PDS, 45 cases), dampness heat syndrome (DHS, 18 cases), blood stasis syndrome (BSS, 28 cases), yin deficiency syndrome (YDS, 26 cases). The mass spectra of serum proteins was analyzed by using SELDI-TOF-MS. Then the correlation between Chinese medical syndrome types and the mass spectra of serum proteins was explored before and after interventional treatment.pared with the healthy control group, the expression of serum proteins peak was down-regulated in GDS with M/Z being 6 589 and 4 182 Da, in DHS with M/Z being 5 710 Da, in YDS with M/ Z being 6 992 Da, while it was up-regulated in PDS with M/Z being 5 816 Da and in BSS with M/Z being 4 297 Da, showing statistical difference (P < 0.01). Compared with before intervention, the expression of serum proteins peak was down-regulated in GDS with M/Z being 6 589 and 4 182 Da, in PDS with M/Z being 5 816 Da, in DHS with M/Z being 5 710 Da in BSS with M/Z being 4 297 Da, while it was up-regulated in YDS with M/Z being 6 992 Da, showing statistical difference (P < 0.05, P < 0.01).re was statistical difference in changes of serum protein fingerprinting in PLC patients of different Chinese medical syndromes before and after interventional treatment.
,   Z-100 is an arabinomannan extracted from Mycobacterium tuberculosis that has various immunomodulatory activities, such as the induction of interleukin 12, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and beta-chemokines. The effects of Z-100 on human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication in human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) are investigated in this paper. In MDMs, Z-100 markedly suppressed the replication of not only macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) HIV-1 strain (HIV-1JR-CSF), but also HIV-1 pseudotypes that possessed amphotropic Moloney murine leukemia virus or vesicular stomatitis virus G envelopes. Z-100 was found to inhibit HIV-1 expression, even when added 24 h after infection. In addition, it substantially inhibited the expression of the pNL43lucDeltaenv vector (in which the env gene is defective and the nef gene is replaced with the firefly luciferase gene) when this vector was transfected directly into MDMs. These findings suggest that Z-100 inhibits virus replication, mainly at HIV-1 transcription. However, Z-100 also downregulated expression of the cell surface receptors CD4 and CCR5 in MDMs, suggesting some inhibitory effect on HIV-1 entry. Further experiments revealed that Z-100 induced IFN-beta production in these cells, resulting in induction of the 16-kDa CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) beta transcription factor that represses HIV-1 long terminal repeat transcription. These effects were alleviated by SB 203580, a specific inhibitor of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), indicating that the p38 MAPK signalling pathway was involved in Z-100-induced repression of HIV-1 replication in MDMs. These findings suggest that Z-100 might be a useful immunomodulator for control of HIV-1 infection.
,   Several factors can interfere with the full physical and emotional growth of adolescents, among them chronic diseases. The aim was to determine the nutritional status of adolescents and to associate it with puberty, pancreatic sufficiency, lung function and age range of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) diagnosis.observational, cross-sectional, retrospective and analytical study was conducted using the data of medical records.erence center in the northeastern region of the state of São Paulo - Brazil. adolescents with CF attended in 2010 were included. Some variables included: pancreatic sufficiency (steatocrit >2 %), pancreatic enzymes replacement (yes/no), pubertal status-Tanner criteria (prepubertal: M1/G1, pubertal: M2/G2 to M4/G4, postpubertal: M5/G5), age at CF diagnosis (<2 and ≥2 years of age), Lung function, measured as a predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1). Main outcome measures Nutritional indicators: body mass index for age (BMI/A) and height for age (H/A) with z-score calculated with Anthro Plus software. Cut-off reference points: ≥ z-score -3 and < z-score -2 (thinness); z-score -2 and ≤ z-score-z +1 (normal weight); >z-score +1 (overweight or obesity), and z-score <-2 (low or very low H/A). The groups were compared by the Kruskal-Wallis test. Level of significance: p < 0.05.rty adolescents. Median (min;max)  age: 14.4 (10.1;19.8) years. BMI/A and H/A z-score, respectively: early diagnosis of CF (-0.8; -1.1) or late diagnosis of CF (-0.5;-0.8); with pancreatic insufficiency (-0.7; -0.8) or without pancreatic insufficiency (-0.8; -0.5) and prepubertal (-0.8; -0.7) pubertal (-0.2; -1.5) or postpubertal (-0.7; -0.5). No significant difference (p > 0.05) was observed. Patients with and without pancreatic insufficiency, presented H/A borderline z-score (p = 0.05). Association between H/A and FEV1 was borderline (p = 0.05).lescents presented adequate nutritional status, although with slightly lower values than those of developed countries. FEV1 lower levels occurred more frequently in adolescents with low H/A.
,   Tamoxifen, the most frequently used drug for treating estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, must be converted into active metabolites to exert its therapeutic efficacy, mainly through CYP2D6 enzymes. The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of CYP2D6 polymorphisms on (Z)-endoxifen-directed tamoxifen metabolism and to assess the usefulness of CYP2D6 genotyping for identifying patients who are likely to have insufficient (Z)-endoxifen concentrations to benefit from standard therapy.od samples from 279 Polish women with breast cancer receiving tamoxifen 20 mg daily were analyzed for CYP2D6 genotype and drug metabolite concentration. Steady-state plasma levels of tamoxifen and its 14 metabolites were measured by using the ultra-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) method.nearly 60 % of patients, including over 30 % of patients with fully functional CYP2D6, (Z)-endoxifen concentration was below the predefined threshold of therapeutic efficacy. The most frequently observed CYP2D6 genotype was EM/PM (34.8 %), among which 83.5 % of patients had a combination of wild-type and *4 alleles. Plasma concentration of five metabolites was significantly correlated with CYP2D6 genotype. For the first time, we identified an association between decreased (E/Z)-4-OH-N-desmethyl-tamoxifen-β-D-glucuronide levels (r (2)  = 0.23; p < 10(-16)) and increased CYP2D6 functional impairment. The strongest correlation was observed for (Z)-endoxifen, whose concentration was significantly lower in groups of patients carrying at least one CYP2D6 null allele, compared with EM/EM patients. The CYP2D6 genotype accounted for plasma level variability of (Z)-endoxifen by 27 % (p < 10(-16)) and for the variability of metabolic ratio indicating (Z)-endoxifen-directed metabolism of tamoxifen by 51 % (p < 10(-43)). majority of breast cancer patients in Poland may not achieve a therapeutic level of (Z)-endoxifen upon receiving a standard dose of tamoxifen. This finding emphasizes the limited value of CYP2D6 genotyping in routine clinical practice for identifying patients who might not benefit from the therapy. In its place, direct monitoring of plasma steady-state (Z)-endoxifen concentration should be performed to personalize and optimize the treatment.
,   Central dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the gold standard for non-invasive measurement of bone mineral density (BMD). Using this value and subject demographics, DXA software calculates T-scores and Z-scores. Professional society guidelines for the management of osteoporosis are based on T-scores and Z-scores, rather than on the actual BMD value. Although one expects T-scores and Z-scores to be very similar in young men and women for any given BMD measurement, little literature exists on this issue. Our clinical experience shows that some younger adult individuals (premenopausal women and men younger than 50 yr) have larger than expected difference between their DXA T-score and Z-score. This cross-sectional study evaluates the extent of this discordance between Z-scores and T-scores in a sample of 4275 men and women aged 20-49 yr. All subjects were scanned by central DXA using equipment manufactured by GE Lunar, GE, Madison, WI, or Hologic, Inc., Bedford, MA. Significant differences between Z-scores and T-scores were seen within individuals at the lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck, and trochanter (p value<0.001) for both DXA systems. Although these differences were less than half a standard deviation (SD) in most instances, the magnitude of difference was substantial at times, being 1 or more SD in up to 11% of cases (range: -1.95 to +1.54 SD). The smallest differences were seen at the total hip and the largest differences were seen at the femoral neck for both technologies. This is in part because there is no single standard Z-score definition, resulting in different methods of calculation across, and even within, DXA manufacturers. Standardization of Z-score definition and method of calculation is indicated. DXA Z-scores should be interpreted with caution in men and women aged 20-50 yr.
,   This study evaluates the eye drop delivery of genes with cornea-specific promoters, i.e., keratin 12 (K12) and keratocan (Kera3.2) promoters, by non-ionic poly(ethylene oxide)-poly(propylene oxide)-poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO-PPO-PEO) polymeric micelles (PM) to mouse and rabbit eyes, and investigates the underlying mechanisms.ee PM-formulated plasmids (pCMV-Lac Z, pK12-Lac Z and pKera3.2-Lac Z) containing the Lac Z gene for beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal) whose expression was driven by the promoter of either the cytomegalovirus early gene, the keratin 12 gene or the keratocan gene, were characterized by critical micelle concentration (CMC), dynamic light scattering (DLS), and atomic force microscopy (AFM). Transgene expression in ocular tissue after gene delivery was analyzed by 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactoside (X-Gal) color staining, 1,2-dioxetane beta-Gal enzymatic activity measurement, and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. The delivery mechanisms of plasmid-PM on mouse and rabbit corneas were evaluated by EDTA and RGD (arginine-glycine-aspartic acid) peptide. sizes of the three plasmid-PM complexes were around 150-200 nm with unimodal distribution. Enhanced stability was found for three plasmid-PM formulations after DNase I treatment. After six doses of eye drop delivery of pK12-Lac Z-PM three times a day, beta-Gal activity was significantly increased in both mouse and rabbit corneas. Stroma-specific Lac Z expression was only found in pKera3.2-Lac Z-PM-treated animals with pretreatment by 5 mM EDTA, an opener of junctions. Lac Z gene expression in both pK12-Lac Z-PM and pKera3.2-Lac Z-PM delivery groups was decreased by RGD peptide pretreatment.nea epithelium- and stroma-specific gene expression could be achieved using cornea-specific promoters of keratin 12 and keratocan genes, and the gene was delivered with PM formulation through non-invasive, eye drop in mice and rabbits. The transfection mechanism of plasmid-PM may involve endocytosis and particle size dependent paracellular transport.
,   A generalized principle of designing superstrong Brønsted acids is suggested according to the following scheme: M=O --> M=Z(X)(n). It consists of the formal replacement of =O fragment in carbonyl, sulfonyl, etc. groups in various acidic systems (e.g., CH(3)CHO, FSO(3)H, where M is the CH(3)CH= or FSO(2)H=fragment, respectively) by =NSO(2)F, =NCN, =C(CN)(2), =P(SO(2)F)(3), =S(CN)(4), or any other formally bivalent group =Z(X)(n) (where the formal valency of the central atom Z is n + 2), leading to highly acidic systems (e.g., HC(=P(CN)(3))NH(2), FS(=C(CN)(2))(2)OH, etc.). It is demonstrated that in several cases the introduction of the double-bonded substituent at the central atom (e.g., N, C, P, S, Cl) that carries the potentially acidic proton or the acidity site (e.g., OH, NH(2), CH(3), etc. groups) will lead to the enormous (up to ca. 120 kcal/mol or 88 pK(a) units!) increase of the intrinsic acidity of the respective parent acid. The acidity of the resulting acids and the scope and limitations of the principle are explored using density functional theory calculations at B3LYP 6-311+G level. Some of the resulting acids (or their anions) were found to undergo fragmentation in the course of the geometry optimization. The general trend that follows from the results of the calculations is that the stability of the resulting compounds is influenced by both the M and the Z. If M is a first row element (carbon or nitrogen), then stable species are produced with almost any Z. If M is a second row element (sulfur or phosphorus), then the species with first row Z are mostly predicted to be stable, but most of the species with second row Z are expected to undergo fragmentation during the geometry optimization. The Z = N and Z = C derivatives (e.g., =NSO(2)CF(3), =C(CN)(2), =C(SO(2)CF(3))(2), etc.) are predicted to be the most stable. However, they have relatively modest electron-accepting power as compared to their penta-, hexa-, and heptavalent counterparts. The acidifying effects of the =Z(X)(n)() groups with the same X increase with increasing n: =NCN < =C(CN)(2) < =P(CN)(3) < =S(CN)(4) and =NSO(2)F < =C(SO(2)F)(2) < =P(SO(2)F)(3). Also, the acidifying effect of a fluorosulfonyl-substituted substituent is higher than that of the corresponding cyano-substituted substituent.
,   Ammonium trichloro(dioxoethylene-O,O')tellurate (AS101) has been shown previously to provide radioprotective effects when given to mice 24 h prior to irradiation and to protect mice from lethal and sublethal doses of cyclophosphamide (CTX). In this study we examined the ability of AS101 to protect mice bone marrow colony forming units-granulocyte-macrophage treated in vitro with various doses of ASTA-Z 7557, a potent derivative of cyclophosphamide. We demonstrate that prior incubation with AS101 protects colony forming units-granulocyte-macrophage from toxic effects of ASTA-Z. This protection can also be conferred by injection of mice with AS101 prior to incubation of their bone marrow in vitro with ASTA-Z. Prior incubation with AS101 was shown not to protect K562 leukemic cells or HL-60 cells from the toxic effects of ASTA-Z. We show that AS101 protection from the toxic effects of ASTA-Z in vitro and CTX in vivo can be partially ascribed to increased aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity induced by AS101. This was shown directly by measuring cellular ALDH activity and indirectly by measuring the toxicity of ASTA-Z and CTX in the presence of cyanamide, an inhibitor of ALDH. AS101 is also demonstrated in this study to protect spleen cells from the toxic effects of 5-fluorouracil, probably through a different mechanism. These properties of AS101 make it a useful candidate for increasing the qualitative potential of bone marrow used for autologous transplantation after purging with ASTA-Z. In addition, the results suggest an increase in ALDH activity by AS101 as one of the mechanisms of protection from the toxic effects of ASTA-Z and CTX. However, the chemoprotectiveness of AS101 was found not to be restricted to cyclophosphamide, since as shown in this study, AS101 helped by other mechanisms to reconstitute the number of spleen cells after 5-fluorouracil treatment.
,   Various blends of (E,Z)-2,13-octadecadien-1-ol acetate (E,Z2,13-18: OAc), (Z)-13-octadecen-1-ol acetate (ZOAc) (two previously identified pheromone components of the currant borer,Synanthedon tipuliformis females), (E,Z)-, (Z,Z)-3,13-octadecadien-1-ol acetates (E,Z- andZ,Z3,13-18:OAc), andZ,Z-3,13-octadecadien-1-ol (Z,Z3,13-18:OH) were evaluated in field traps in three geographic regions. MaleS. tipuliformis were attracted toE,Z2,13-18:OAc in Tasmania, New Zealand, and Hungary. Captures were not influenced by the addition ofZ13-18: OAc, tested in Tasmania and Hungary. In Hungary and New Zealand, the addition ofE,Z3,13-18: OAc toE,Z2,13-18:OAc in a ratio of 100:3 was strongly synergistic; however, in Tasmania captures were reduced. The addition ofZ,Z3,13-18: OAc toE,Z2,13-18:OAc in a ratio of 10∶1 resulted in strong inhibition of trap captures in Hungary. WhenZ,Z3,13-18: OAc was added in different ratios to a 100:3 binary mixture ofE,Z2,13-18:OAc/E,Z3,13-18:OAc in Hungary, it strongly reduced captures at, or above a ratio of 100∶3∶3 but no decrease was recorded at a ratio of 100∶3∶1. In New Zealand and Tasmania it reduced captures at a ratio of 100∶3∶1. Observations of behavioral responses of maleS. tipuliformis in Hungary to synthetic baits in the field showed thatE,Z2,13-18:OAcby itself evoked close-range approaches to the source from only 20% of males, whereas the addition ofE,Z3,13-18:OAc in a ratio of 100∶3 raised that value to 65 %. Landing on the source was significant only at sources with a 100∶3∶0.1∶3∶10 blend ofE,Z2,13-18:OAc/E,Z3,13-18: OAc/Z,Z3,13-18: OAc/Z,Z3,13-18: OH/Z13-18: OAc. A 100∶3 binary mixture ofE,Z2,13-18:OAc/E,Z3,13-18:OAc in a dose range of 10-1000 μg can be recommended for more effective field monitoring ofS. tipuliformis populations in Hungary and in New Zealand. In Tasmania, at present,E,Z2,13-18: OAc by itself is the most potent sex attractant of the species. 
,   There are limited published data describing the relative efficacy of available treatment options in younger versus older patients with persistent asthma.compare the efficacy of fluticasone propionate (FP) and zafirlukast (Z) in younger (12 to 49 years of age) versus older (50 years and older) patients with asthma.etrospective analysis of five randomized, double-blind, double-dummy studies 4 to 12 weeks in duration of 1,742 patients <50 years of age and 243 patients aged 50 years or older. Interventions were inhaled fluticasone propionate (FP) 88 microg, oral Z 20 mg, or placebo twice daily.atment with FP resulted in significantly greater improvements than Z in all efficacy measurements (except for nighttime awakenings) regardless of age. In older patients, treatment with FP significantly increased pulmonary function compared with Z: FEV (FP= +0.19 L; placebo = -0.34 L; Z = -0.06 L); AM peak expiratory flow rate [PEFR] (FP = +25 L/minute; placebo = -18 L/minute; Z = +4 L/minute); PM PEFR (FP = +24 L/minute; placebo = -24 L/minute; Z = +5 L/minute; P < or = 0.023; for all comparisons). Compared with Z, treatment with FP in older patients also resulted in significantly greater increases in the percentage of symptom-free days (25% vs 13%) and rescue-free days (35% vs 17%); and significantly greater reductions in albuterol use (-1.6 vs -0.3 puffs/day) and the percentage of patients with exacerbations (2.7% vs 14.3%; P < or = 0.031).ardless of age, treatment with FP in patients with asthma significantly improved pulmonary function and overall asthma control. In contrast, treatment with Z in older patients with asthma resulted in small improvements in asthma symptoms, whereas lung function improved minimally or not at all, and exacerbations increased. These data suggest that FP effectively controls inflammation in older patients, whereas Z may mask inflammation and may not provide the level of bronchodilatory or anti-inflammatory activity needed for effective asthma control in older patients.
,   To elucidate the transport system by which [2-(4-chlorophenylsulfonylaminomethyl)indan-5-yl]acetate (Z-335) is taken up into the liver, we investigated the uptake characteristics of Z-335 in isolated rat hepatocytes. In addition, we estimated the hepatic uptake of Z-335 in intact rats under steady-state conditions and compared it with the in vitro uptake clearance. Uptake of Z-335 is highly concentrative (cell-to-medium concentration ratios were 21.2 at 0.5 min and 71.7 at 5 min), temperature-dependent, and sensitive to metabolic inhibitors, indicating that uptake is mediated by energy-dependent uphill transport. In the presence of metabolic inhibitors [carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone and rotenone], uptake remained at 37 and 49% of the control value, respectively, suggesting that ATP-independent uptake contributes to the total uptake of Z-335. The concentration dependence of the initial uptake velocity indicated a two-component process, one saturable component, with a K(m) value of 45.6 microM and a V(max) value of 4.1 nmol/min/mg of protein, and a nonspecific diffusion clearance, with a P(dif) value of 8.3 microl/min/mg of protein. The contribution of the carrier-mediated uptake to the total uptake in a linear range was estimated as 91%. The in vivo hepatic intrinsic clearance (CL(int, app)) was comparable with that in vitro uptake clearance (PS(influx)) and indicated that the CL(int, app) of Z-335 at steady state is rate-limited by the uptake process. In conclusion, hepatic intrinsic clearance of Z-335 at steady state is rate-limited by the uptake process since Z-335 is efficiently taken up by an active transport mechanism, followed by metabolism or biliary excretion.
,   We previously reported that low protein Z plasma levels are associated with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Aim of the present study was to evaluate protein Z levels in different phases of activity of coronary atherosclerosis. Protein Z plasma levels were measured in 166 (131 male and 35 female) patients consecutively admitted to the University of Florence with a diagnosis of ACS (group A), 166 (131 male and 35 female) patients selected by age and gender in relation to group A from those with a clinical history of ACS who remained symptom- and/or event-free over the last year before the investigation (group B); and 332 (262 male and 70 female) controls comparable for age and gender with the other two groups. None had liver or renal dysfunction nor showed a positivity for antiphospholipid antibodies or for factor V Leiden mutation. Patients under warfarin therapy were excluded. Mean protein Z plasma levels were found to be significantly (P < 0.0001) lower in group A (1475 +/- 684.1 ng mL(-1)) and group B (1327.6 +/- 690.7 ng mL(-1)) as compared with control group (1650.1 +/- 634.5 ng mL(-1)), while no significant differences existed between the two groups of patients (P = 0.06). A logistic regression analysis, performed after the division of the study population into quartiles of protein Z levels and adjusted for all possible confounders, showed a significant increased risk of ACS for the lowest (<1213 ng mL(-1)) as compared with the highest quartile of protein Z in both groups of patients [group A odds ratio (OR): 2.7, 95% CI 1.3-5.5, P = 0.007; group B OR: 3.2, 95% CI 1.1-8.9, P = 0.02). In conclusion, these results strengthen our previous data on low protein Z plasma levels in ACS and indicate a possible dose-response effect of decreasing protein Z plasma levels on the coronary atherosclerotic disease.
,   Synthetic retinoid-related molecules (RRMs) have been described that show strong antiproliferative activity and induce apoptosis in cancer cells. These RRMs induce caspase activity independently of the retinoid receptors in Jurkat T cells. We observed that the inhibitor of cathepsins B and L Z-FA-fmk blocks the induction of DEVDase activity, DNA fragmentation, and externalization of phosphatidylserine by selective RRMs. Z-FA-fmk can inhibit caspase activity in vitro and selectively inhibits recombinant effector caspases 2, -3, -6, and -7. In contrast, purified initiator caspases 8 and 10 are not affected, whereas the apoptosome-associated caspase 9 is only partially inhibited by Z-FA-fmk in vitro. These data correlate with the covalent binding of biotinylated Z-FA-fmk to the active large subunit of effector caspases. This selective targeting of effector caspases is also observed in Jurkat cells and has been used to demonstrate that RRMs induce apoptosis through the mitochondrial pathway and activate caspase 8 in a Z-FA-fmk-sensitive manner. Thus, Z-FA-fmk fails to inhibit Fas-mediated activation of caspase 8, but completely inhibits RRM-induced processing of caspase 8. Z-FA-fmk does not prevent the autoproteolytic cleavage of caspase 9 in Jurkat cells and partially inhibits the processing and full maturation of effector caspases induced by the RRMs. Moreover, Z-VAD-fmk and Z-FA-fmk have no effect on the release of cytochrome c induced by the RRMs. Other cathepsin inhibitors elicit no effect on RRM-induced apoptosis in Jurkat cells, suggesting that caspases are the major effectors of RRM action.
,   [(11)C]ABP688 is a promising positron emission tomography (PET) ligand for imaging of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5 receptor). Of the two geometric isomers of ABP688, (E)-ABP688 has a greater affinity towards mGlu5 receptors than (Z)-ABP688. Therefore, a high ratio of E-isomer is required when using [(11)C]ABP688 as a PET probe for imaging and quantification of mGlu5 receptors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 on the synthesis of [(11)C]ABP688 to be used for binding (E)-[(11)C]ABP688 in the brain.synthesized and separated (E)- and (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 by purification using an improved preparative high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method equipped with a COSMOSIL Cholester column. We performed an in vitro binding assay in rat brain homogenates and PET studies of the rat brains using (E)- and (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688.- and (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 were successfully obtained with suitable radioactivity for application. In the in vitro assay, the Kd value of (E)-[(11)C]ABP688 (5.7 nmol/L) was higher than that of (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 (140 nmol/L). In the PET study of the rat brain, high radioactivity after injection of (E)-[(11)C]ABP688 was observed in regions rich in mGlu5 receptors such as the striatum and hippocampus. In contrast, after injection of (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688, radioactivity did not accumulate in the brain. Furthermore, BPND in the striatum and hippocampus was highly correlated (R(2) = 0.99) with the percentage of (E)-[(11)C]ABP688 of the total radioactivity of (E)- and (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 in the injection.demonstrated that including (Z)-[(11)C]ABP688 in the [(11)C]ABP688 injection can decrease BPND in regions rich in mGlu5 receptors. Routine production of (E)-[(11)C]ABP688 will be helpful for imaging and quantification of mGlu5 receptors in clinical studies.
,   The volatile anesthetic sevoflurane is degraded in anesthesia machines to the haloalkene fluoromethyl-2,2-difluoro-1-(trifluoromethyl)vinyl ether (FDVE), which can cause renal and hepatic toxicity in rats. FDVE is metabolized to S-[1,1-difluoro-2-fluoromethoxy-2-(trifluoromethyl)ethyl]-L-cysteine (DFEC) and (E) and (Z)-S-[1-fluoro-2-fluoromethoxy-2-(trifluoromethyl)vinyl]-L-cysteine [(E,Z)-FFVC], which are N-acetylated to N-Ac-DFEC and (E,Z)-N-Ac-FFVC S-conjugates. Some haloalkene S-conjugates undergo sulfoxidation. This investigation tested the hypothesis that FDVE S-conjugates can also undergo sulfoxidation, by evaluating sulfoxide formation by human and rat liver and kidney microsomes and expressed P450s and flavin monooxygenases. Rat, and at lower rates human, liver microsomes oxidized (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC and N-Ac-DFEC to the corresponding sulfoxides. Much lower rates of (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC, but not N-Ac-DFEC, sulfoxidation occurred with rat and human kidney microsomes. In human liver microsomes, the P450 inhibitor 1-aminobenzotriazole completely inhibited S-oxidation, while heating to inactivate FMO decreased (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC and N-Ac-DFEC sulfoxidation only 0 and 30%, respectively. Of the various cytochrome P450s examined, P450s 3A4 and 3A5 had the highest S-oxidase activity toward (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC; P450 3A4 was the predominant enzyme forming N-Ac-DFEC-SO. The P450 3A inhibitors troleandomycin and ketoconazole inhibited >95% of (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC sulfoxidation by P450 3A4 and 3A5 and 40-100% of (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC sulfoxidation by human liver microsomes and 15-85% of N-Ac-DFEC sulfoxidation by human liver microsomes. Sulfoxidation of DFEC was also examined in human liver microsomes. Substantial amounts of sulfoxide were observed, even in the absence of NADPH or protein, while enzymatic formation was comparatively minimal. These results show that FDVE S-conjugates undergo P450-catalyzed and nonenzymatic sulfoxidation and that enzymatic sulfoxidation of (Z)-N-Ac-FFVC and N-Ac-DFEC is catalyzed predominantly by P450 3A. The extent of FDVE sulfoxidation in vivo and the toxicologic significance of FDVE sulfoxides remain unknown and merit further investigation.
,   A cDNA encoding a previously unknown G protein alpha-subunit lacking the site for pertussis toxin-catalyzed ADP-ribosylation was recently cloned and its putative protein product named Gz (Fong, H. K. W., Yoshimoto, K. K., Eversole-Cire, P., and Simon, M. I. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 85, 3066-3070) or Gx (Matsuoka, M., Itoh, H. Kozasa, T., and Kaziro, Y. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 85, 5384-5388). A synthetic peptide corresponding to the deduced carboxyl-terminal decapeptide of this putative protein (alpha z) has been synthesized and used to prepare a polyclonal rabbit antiserum directed against the protein. The specificity and cross-reactivity of this antiserum was assessed using bacterially expressed recombinant G protein alpha-subunit fusion proteins (r alpha). The crude antiserum strongly recognizes r alpha z in immunoblots. Pretreatment of antiserum with antigen peptide greatly reduces the interaction of the antiserum with r alpha z. Affinity purified antiserum strongly recognizes expressed r alpha z, does not recognize r alpha s1, r alpha s1, r alpha o, or r alpha i3, and very weakly interacts with r alpha i1 and r alpha i2. In contrast, the alpha-subunits of purified bovine brain Gi1 and human erythrocyte Gi2 and Gi3 did not react with the alpha z-antiserum. Partially purified mixtures of human erythrocyte G proteins contain a 41-kDa protein that reacts specifically in immunoblots with both crude and affinity purified alpha z-specific antiserum. Quantitative immunoblotting using r alpha z as a standard indicates that there is 60-100 ng of alpha z/micrograms of 40/41-kDa alpha-subunit protein in partially purified human erythrocyte G protein preparations. We conclude that we have identified the alpha z gene product as a 41-kDa trace protein in human erythrocytes.
,   We aimed to assess the trends in body mass index (BMI) and body fat percentage (BF%) from the age of 13 to 17 years and to evaluate how sociodemographic and behavioural characteristics at the age of 13  impact changes in BMI and BF%.to, Portugal.evaluated 1451 adolescents in a community-based cohort. z-scores were calculated according to CDC references. BF% was assessed by bioelectrical impedance. Variables with a significant effect in adiposity changes were identified through linear regression models. In girls, estimates were controlled for duration of follow-up, parental education, baseline BMI z-score, age at menarche and the interaction term baseline BMI z-score×age at menarche; in boys, adjustments were performed for duration of follow-up, parental education, baseline BMI z-score and the interaction term baseline BMI z-score×duration of follow-up.average, BMI z-score decreased from the age of 13 to 17 years (mean difference -0.20, 95% CI -0.23 to -0.16 among girls and -0.15, 95% CI -0.19 to -0.11 among boys). Accordingly, 12.4% of girls and 13% of boys moved to a lower BMI category and 2.2% of girls and 5.5% of boys to a higher category. There were sex differences in the significant determinants of adiposity trends. Among girls, BMI z-score significantly decreased with baseline BMI z-score (β=-0.163, 95% CI -0.204 to -0.122) and significantly increased with age at menarche (β=0.078, 95% CI 0.050 to 0.107). Results were similar for BF%. Among boys, BMI z-score significantly increased with higher parental BMI, and BF% decreased among those who wished to look larger at the age of 13 (β=-1.367, 95% CI -2.174 to -0.560), compared with those who were satisfied with their image.adolescents, ageing resulted in a decrease in BMI z-scores and BF%. BMI and BF% at the age of 13 were the major determinants of the observed trends. Our results suggest that adolescence is a possible specific time window for intervention.
,   The polarization of the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) emissions in the reactions of oriented Xe* ((3)P(2), M(J) = 2) + halogen (X)-containing molecules (CCl(4), CF(3)Br, CF(3)I, CH(3)I, NF(3)) has been measured as a function of each magnetic M(J)' substate in the collision frame. The parallel polarization of the XeX* (B, C) emissions to the relative velocity vector is commonly observed for all magnetic M(J)' substates. The correlation between the atomic alignment (M(J)') and the M(J)'-dependent alignment (A(M(J)')) of the XeX* (B, C) rotation is found to be extremely different between the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) channels: For XeX* (B), A(M(J)') is highest for the M(J)' = 0 state, except CCl(4), whereas the |M(J)'| = 2 states give the highest A(M(J)') for XeX* (C). Alternatively, the correlation between the configuration (L(Z)') of the inner 5p orbital and the L(Z)'-dependent alignment (A(L(Z)')) of the XeX* (B, C) rotations is revealed. The collision with |L(Z)'| = 1 causes a similar positive alignment A(L(Z)') for the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) channels. The alignment A(L(Z)') at the collision with |L(Z)'| = 0 is extremely different between the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) channels. The collision with L(Z)' = 0 induces no alignment of XeX* (C) except CF(3)I, that is, A(L(Z)'=0) approximately 0, whereas it induces the higher positive A(L(Z)') of XeX* (B). The different M(J)' dependence on the alignment of the XeX* (B, C) rotation between the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) channels can be recognized as the change of reaction mechanism due to the difference in the favorable impact parameter for each M(J)' state between the XeX* (B) and XeX* (C) channels, which reflects the Omega' conservation in the course of ion-pair (Xe(+)-RX(-)) formation.
,   With the increasing clinical use of shift-variant CT protocols involving tube current modulation (TCM), variable pitch or pitch modulation (PM), and variable aperture a(t), the interpretation of the scanner-reported CTDIvol is called into question. This was addressed for TCM in their previous paper published by Dixon and Boone [Med. Phys. 40, 111920 (14pp.) (2013)] and is extended to PM and concurrent TCM/PM as well as variable aperture in this work.orous convolution equations are derived to describe the accumulated dose distributions for TCM, PM, and concurrent TCM/PM. A comparison with scanner-reported CTDIvol formulae clearly identifies the source of their differences with the traditional CTDIvol. Dose distribution simulations using the convolution are provided for a variety of TCM and PM scenarios including a helical shuttle used for perfusion studies (as well as constant mA)-all having the same scanner-reported CTDIvol. These new convolution simulations for TCM are validated by comparison with their previous discrete summations.se equations show that PM is equivalent to TCM if the pitch variation p(z) is proportional to 1/i(z), where i(z) is the local tube current. The simulations show that the local dose at z depends only weakly on the local tube current i(z) or local pitch p(z) due to scatter from all other locations along z, and that the "local CTDIvol(z)" or "CTDIvol per slice" do not represent a local dose but rather only a relative i(z) or p(z). The CTDI-paradigm does not apply to shift-variant techniques and the scanner-reported CTDIvol for the same lacks physical significance and relevance.le the traditional CTDIvol at constant tube current and pitch conveys useful information (the peak dose at the center of the scan length), CTDIvol for shift-variant techniques (TCM or PM) conveys no useful information about the associated dose distribution it purportedly represents. On the other hand, the total energy absorbed E ("integral dose") as well as its surrogate DLP remain robust (invariant) with respect to shift-variance, depending only on the total mAs = 〈i〉t0 accumulated during the total beam-on time t0 and aperture a, where 〈i〉 is the average current.
,   The multiple cysteine proteinases of Trichomonas vaginalis and Tritrichomonas foetus, both those retained intracellularly and those released, were separated using gelatin-SDS-PAGE, and their activity towards a range of 15 fluorogenic peptidyl aminomethylcoumarins determined together with their relative sensitivity to inhibitors. Three types of enzyme were apparent in T. vaginalis: (i) an 86-kDa enzyme active only on Z-Arg-Arg-NHMec; (ii) a 54-kDa proteinase which was most active on Z-Phe-Arg-NHMec but also able to hydrolyse N-t-Boc-Val-Leu-Lys-NHMec, Suc-Ala-Phe-Lys-NHMec, H-Pro-Phe-Arg-NHMec and Z-Arg-Arg-NHMec; and (iii) a group of six enzymes which preferentially hydrolysed substrates with bulky residues at the P2 and P3 positions. N-t-Boc-Val-Leu-Lys-NHMec and H-Leu-Val-Tyr-NHMec were the best substrates for the latter group. The 86-kDa proteinase was inactivated by E-64, but only at high concentrations, and was relatively insensitive to the peptidyl diazomethanes. The other proteinases were inhibited by low concentrations of E-64 and by Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2, and to a lesser extent by Z-Phe-Phe-CHN2. Differences between the proteinases of T. foetus were also demonstrated. All of them were active on Z-Arg-Arg-NHMec, but their activity towards other substrates varied. Three predominantly extracellular proteinases (25, 27 and 34 kDa), hydrolysed Z-Arg-Arg-NHMec specifically. Other proteinases (apparent Mr of 20,000 and 32,000) hydrolysed a number of other substrates, with the 32-kDa enzyme having greater activity towards N-t-Boc-Val-Leu-Lys-NHMec and H-Leu-Val-Tyr-NHMec than towards Z-Arg-Arg-NHMec. At a high concentration (270 microM), E-64 inhibited all of the T. foetus enzymes, but lower concentrations were less effective, with the 18-kDa proteinase being particularly insensitive. Z-Phe-Ala-CHN2 and Z-Phe-Phe-CHN2 were relatively poor inhibitors. The results demonstrate that the proteinases of both species are a heterogeneous group with respect to specificity, and have highlighted significant differences between the enzymes of T. vaginalis and T. foetus. The information on the specificities will be useful for assessing the features required in proteinase inhibitors if they are to be of potential value as antitrichomonal agents.
,   An enzyme extract from the phycocyanin-containing unicellular rhodophyte, Cyanidium caldarium, reductively transforms biliverdin IX alpha to phycocyanobilin, the chromophore of phycocyanin, in the presence of NADPH. Unpurified cell extract forms both 3(E)-phycocyanobilin, which is identical to the major pigment that is released from phycocyanin by methanolysis, and 3(Z)-phycocyanobilin, which is obtained as a minor methanolysis product. After removal of low molecular weight material from the cell extract, only 3(Z)-phycocyanobilin is formed. 3(E)-Phycocyanobilin formation from biliverdin IX alpha, and the ability to isomerize 3(Z)-phycocyanobilin to 3(E)-phycocyanobilin, are reconstituted by the addition of glutathione to the incubation mixture. Partially purified protein fractions derived from the initial enzyme extract form 3(Z)-phycocyanobilin plus two additional, violet colored bilins, upon incubation with NADPH and biliverdin IX alpha. Further purified protein fractions produce only the violet colored bilins from biliverdin IX alpha. One of these bilins was identified as 3(Z)-phycoerythrobilin by comparative spectrophotometry, reverse-phase high pressure liquid chromatography, and 1H NMR spectroscopy. A C. caldarium protein fraction catalyzes the conversion of 3(Z)-phycoerythrobilin to 3(Z)-phycocyanobilin. This fraction also catalyzes the conversion of 3(E)-phycoerythrobilin to 3(E)-phycocyanobilin. The conversion of phycoerythrobilins to phycocyanobilins requires neither biliverdin nor NADPH. The synthesis of phycoerythrobilin and its conversion to phycocyanobilin by extracts of C. caldarium, a species that does not contain phycoerythrin, indicates that phycoerythrobilin is a biosynthetic precursor to phycocyanobilin. The enzymatic conversion of the ethylidine group from the Z to the E configuration suggests that the E-isomer is the precursor to the protein-bound chromophore.
,   Growth failure is a common feature of children with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. Children who are treated with mono or dual nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) therapy show a temporary increase in weight gain and linear growth rate. In adults, protease-inhibitor-containing antiretroviral therapy is associated with a sustained weight gain and increased body mass index (BMI). Experience with protease inhibitors and growth in children is still limited. The data mainly deal with short-term effects on growth.evaluate the effect of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on growth in children with HIV-1 infection.analyzed selected growth parameters, clinical data, and laboratory results as part of a prospective, open, uncontrolled, multicenter study to evaluate the clinical, immunologic, and virologic response to HAART consisting of indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine in children with HIV-1 infection. Height and weight were measured at 0, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, and 96 weeks after initiation of HAART. Information about the children's growth before enrollment in the study was retrieved from the hospital medical records and/or the school doctor or health center. BMI was calculated. z Scores were used to express the standard deviation (SD) in SD units from the Dutch reference curves for age and gender. Viral loads and CD4+ T-cell counts were examined prospectively and related to these growth parameters. z Scores were also calculated for CD4+ T-cell counts to correct for age-related differences. A z score of 0 represents the P50, which is exactly the age/sex-appropriate median. A height z score of -1 indicates that a child's height is 1 SD below the age- and gender-specific median height for the normal population. Virologic responders were defined as those who either reached an undetectable viral load (<500 copies/mL) or had a >1.5 log reduction in viral load compared with baseline at week 12 after the initiation of HAART, which was maintained during the follow-up period. RESULTS.nty-four patients were included (age: 0.4-16.3 years at baseline), with a median HIV-1 RNA load of 105 925 copies/mL (5.03 log), a median CD4+ T-cell count of 0.586 x 10(9)/L (median z score: -2.28 SD), a median height z score of -1.22, a median weight z score of -0.74, and a median baseline BMI z score of -0.32. Eleven patients were naive to antiretroviral therapy, and 13 patients had received previous treatment with NRTI monotherapy. Twenty children used indinavir and 4 children used nelfinavir as part of HAART. VIROLOGIC AND IMMUNOLOGIC RESPONSES TO HAART: Seventeen children were virologic responders, and 7 children were virologic nonresponders. In patients naive to NRTIs, median baseline viral loads were significantly higher than in pretreated patients. However, at weeks 48 and 96, there was no significant difference between the viral loads of both groups. At baseline, there was no significant difference in CD4+a T-cell z scores between virologic responders and nonresponders or between naive and pretreated patients. During 96 weeks of HAART, the increase of CD4+ T-cell z score was significantly higher in responders than in nonresponders. The increase in CD4+ T-cell z score was not significantly different for naive and pretreated patients. HEIGHT, WEIGHT, AND BMI z SCORE CHANGES: We found that there was a trend toward a significantly increased z score change during 96 weeks of HAART compared with the z score change before HAART initiation for height and weight, but not for BMI. GROWTH AND VIROLOGIC RESPONSE TO HAART: When the data were analyzed separately for virologic responders and nonresponders, virologic responders showed significant increases in height and weight. The height and weight of virologic nonresponders did not change significantly. The BMI did not change significantly in responders or in nonresponders. GROWTH AND IMMUNOLOGIC RESPONSE TO HAART: The increase of weight and BMI z scores from baseline correlated positively with the CD4+ T-cell z score increase from baseline. It did not correlate with absolute CD4+ T-cell count increase. Height z score increase did not correlate with CD4+ T-cell z score or with absolute CD4+ T-cell counts. GROWTH AND PREVIOUS NRTI TREATMENT: The height z score decrease from week -48 to baseline was significantly larger in naive than in pretreated patients. The weight and BMI z score change from week -48 to baseline was not significantly different for pretreated and naive patients. From baseline to week 96, the height and weight z score change increased significantly in naive patients but not in pretreated patients compared with the change from week -48 to baseline. The BMI z score did not change significantly over 96 weeks of HAART for naive or pretreated patients. GROWTH AND CLINICAL STAGE OF INFECTION: The clinical stage of infection according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention classification correlated negatively with the BMI z score and the weight z score at baseline but not with the height z score. Thus, children with the most severe clinical disease had the lowest BMI and weight z scores at baseline. The BMI z score increased more in children with more advanced clinical infection at baseline, who had lower BMI at baseline. The clinical stage of infection did not correlate with the change in weight z score from baseline to week 96.RT has a positive influence effect on the growth of HIV-1-infected children. This effect is sustained for at least 96 weeks. Height and weight are favorably influenced in children in whom HAART leads to a reduction of the viral load of at least 1.5 log or to <500 copies/mL and to an increase in the CD4+ T-cell z score. In contrast to the increase of the BMI in adults on HAART, BMI did not increase in all children effectively treated with HAART. BMI increased more in children with an advanced stage of infection and a poor nutritional status at baseline. Data from pretreated and naive patients were difficult to interpret, because the baseline characteristics of these 2 groups differed too much.
,   The kinetics and product distributions of the reactions of dimethyl disulfide (DMDS) have been investigated with a group of chemical background ions commonly observed in atmospheric pressure ionization (API) mass spectrometry (MS) in order to assess the value of this molecule in filtering (or "scrubbing") these ions by changing their mass/charge (m/z) ratio. The measurements were taken with a novel electrospray ionization/selected ion flow tube/QqQ tandem mass spectrometer. The background ions studied include those with m/z 42 (protonated acetonitrile, ACN), 83 (protonated ACN dimer), 99 (protonated phosphoric acid), 117 (water cluster of m/z 99), 131 (methanol cluster of m/z 99), 149 (protonated phthalic anhydride, formed from the phthalates), and 327 (protonated triphenyl phosphate). In addition, reactions of DMDS have been studied with two model analytes--protonated caffeine and doubly protonated bradykinin--in order to assess the selectivity of DMDS reactivity. All the measurements were taken at 295 +/- 2 K in helium buffer gas at a pressure of 0.35 +/- 0.01 Torr. DMDS was observed to react efficiently with m/z 42 (ACNH+), 149 (from phthalates), and 99 (protonated phosphoric acid), with k/kc=0.91, 0.47, and 0.38, respectively. Only proton transfer was observed with ACNH+, followed by the secondary reaction of [DMDSH]+ with DMDS to yield [CH3S-S(CH3)-SCH3]+. Ligation of DMDS was the dominant primary channel observed for the reaction of the m/z 149 background ion; however, some proton transfer also was observed. Both of these primary product ions react further with DMDS to yield [CH3S-S(CH3)-SCH3]+, the structure of which we have determined computationally using DFT calculations. Only the sequential ligation with two DMDS molecules was observed for the reaction of the m/z 99 ion. Reactions of DMDS with m/z 117 [H3PO4 + H + H2O]+ and m/z 131 [H3PO4 + H + MeOH]+ were observed to proceed with k/kc=0.71 and 0.058, respectively. Ligand substitution of DMDS for H2O predominated ( approximately 94%) over DMDS ligation ( approximately 6%) in the reaction with m/z 117, while only DMDS ligation was observed for the reaction of m/z 131 with DMDS. In contrast, the reactions of DMDS with ions of m/z 83 (protonated dimer of ACN) and 327 (protonated triphenyl phosphate) were extremely inefficient, with k/kc=0.0042 and 0.0079, respectively. The higher reactivity of DMDS toward ACNH+ (m/z 42) compared to (ACN)2H+ (m/z 83) is attributed to the lower proton affinity of the unsolvated ACN. The reactivity of DMDS toward the two model analyte ions studied-protonated caffeine and doubly protonated bradykinin-was negligible, with k/kc=0.0073 and 0.010, for the respective reactions. These results suggest that, under appropriate reagent pressure conditions, DMDS can be an appropriate reagent for chemically filtering out many common API-MS background ions, without significantly affecting the observed intensity of analyte peaks.
,   Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) is used to study the gas phase collision cross section Ω(z, n) in CO(2) of multimers C(n) (n = 1-4, 6) of concanavalin A, whose tetramer C(4) has a crystal structure resembling four tetrahedrically arranged globules. C(n)(+z) ions electrosprayed from aqueous solutions of triethylammonium formate (Et(3)AF) are moderately charged (up to z = 6 and 17 for n = 1 and 6) and produce narrow mobility peaks. Charge states down to z = 1 obtained with a charge-reducing radioactive (63)Ni source are studied for the dimer and the tetramer via pure IMS (no MS). The mobilities are independent of pH in the range 6-8, controlled by addition of triethylamine to the Et(3)AF. The measured compactness group Ω(z, n)/n(2/3) is practically independent of n and z, whereas mobility calculations with clusters of touching spheres show that it should vary with n by 20-30% for a variety of scattering models. This contrast suggests that, irrespective of ambiguities on the scattering model, all multimers adopt globular shapes, precluding in particular a tetrahedral tetramer. Acetic acid solutions (87 mM aqueous) yield ions with substantially higher z, mostly with broad mobility distributions. Exceptionally high z tetramers (z = 25-29) and trimers have narrowly defined mobilities with compact but nonspherical shapes. Addition of 2-4 mM Et(3)AF to the 87 mM aqueous acetic acid solution yields narrowly defined mobilities almost identical at all z values to those from the Et(3)AF buffer, although with higher charge states showing also a transition to nonspherical shapes. We conclude that all gas phase clusters charged below a Rayleigh-like charge, z(R), are globular without regard to solution conditions, some undergoing a sharp shape transition at a critical z = z(R). We confirm that gas phase protein cross sections differ from those expected from the crystal structure, with a trend to compact probably driven by their high surface energy (and opposed by Coulombic stresses). The Rayleigh-like shape transitions seen are similar to those arising in linear homopolymers, although not as sharply defined. They yield a surface energy for protein matter almost as high as the surface tension of water. This quantitative conclusion is corroborated by prior data on cytochrome c and apomyoglobin (also showing a critical shape transition) as well as measurements of the maximum charge versus mass in aggregates of dipeptides.
,   Incubation of Mn-depleted PSII membranes [PSII(-Mn)] with Fe(II) is accompanied by the blocking of Y(Z)(*) at the high-affinity Mn-binding site to exogenous electron donors [Semin et al. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 5854-5864] and a shift of the pK(app) of the hydrogen bond partner for Y(Z) (base B) from 7.1 to 6.1 [Semin, B. K., and Seibert, M. (2004) Biochemistry 43, 6772-6782]. Here we calculate activation energies (E(a)) for Y(Z)(*) reduction in PSII(-Mn) and Fe-blocked PSII(-Mn) samples [PSII(-Mn, +Fe)] from temperature dependencies of the rate constants of the fast and slow components of the flash-probe fluorescence decay kinetics. At pH < pK(app) (e.g., 5.5), the decays are fit with one (fast) component in both types of samples, and E(a) is equal to 42.2 +/- 2.9 kJ/mol in PSII(-Mn) and 46.4 +/- 3.3 kJ/mol in PSII(-Mn, +Fe) membranes. At pH > pK(app), the decay kinetics exhibit an additional slow component in PSII(-Mn, +Fe) membranes (E(a) = 36.1 +/- 7.5 kJ/mol), which is much lower than the E(a) of the corresponding component observed for Y(Z)(*) reduction in PSII(-Mn) samples (48.1 +/- 1.7 kJ/mol). We suggest that the above difference results from the formation of a strong low barrier hydrogen bond (LBHB) between Y(Z) and base B in PSII(-Mn, +Fe) samples. To confirm this, Fe-blocking was performed in D(2)O to insert D(+), which has an energetic barrier distinct from H(+), into the LBHB. Measurement of the pH effects on the rates of Y(Z)(*) reduction in PSII(-Mn, +Fe) samples blocked in D(2)O shows a shift of the pK(app) from 6.1 to 7.6, and an increase in the E(a) of the slow component. This approach was also used to measure the stability of the Y(Z)(*) EPR signal at various temperatures in both kinds of membranes. In PSII(-Mn) membranes, the freeze-trapped Y(Z)(*) radical is stable below 190 K, but half of the Y(Z)(*) EPR signal disappears after a 1-min incubation when the sample is warmed to 253 K. In PSII(-Mn, +Fe) samples, the trapped Y(Z)(*) radical is unstable at a much lower temperature (77 K). However, the insertion of D(+) into the hydrogen bond between Y(Z) and base B during the blocking process increases the temperature stability of the Y(Z)(*) EPR signal at 77 K. Again, these results indicate that Fe-blocking involves Y(Z) in the formation of a LBHB, which in turn is consistent with the suggested existence of a LBHB between Y(Z) and base B in intact PSII membranes [Zhang, C., and Styring, S. (2003) Biochemistry 42, 8066-8076].
,   Nitrous oxide reductase (N(2)OR) from Pseudomonas stutzeri, a dimeric enzyme with a canonical metal ion content of at least six Cu ions per subunit, contains two types of multinuclear copper sites: Cu(A) and Cu(Z). An electron-transfer role for the dinuclear Cu(A) site is indicated based on its similarity to the Cu(A) site in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO), a dicysteinate-bridged, mixed-valence cluster. The Cu(Z) site is the catalytic site, which had long been thought to have novel spectroscopic properties. However, the low-energy electronic transitions and resonance Raman features attributable to Cu(Z) have been difficult to reconcile with a lack of conserved cysteine residues in standard alignments of N(2)OR sequences, other than those associated with the Cu(A) site. Recent evidence indicates that nitrous oxide reductase contains acid-labile sulfide and that this sulfide is a constituent of the Cu(Z) site (Rasmussen, T.; Berks, B. C.; Sanders-Loehr, J.; Dooley, D. M.; Zumft, W. G.; Thomson, A. J. Biochemistry 2000, 39, 12753-12756). We have used resonance Raman (RR) spectroscopy to selectively probe the Cu(A) and Cu(Z) sites of N(2)OR in three oxidation states (oxidized, semireduced, and reduced) as well as Cu(A)-only and Cu(Z)-only variants. The Cu(A) (mixed-valence, also designated as A(mv)) RR spectrum exhibits 10 vibrational modes between 220 and 410 cm(-1), with >1-cm(-1) (34)S isotope shifts that sum to -16.6 cm(-1). Many of these modes are also sensitive to (65)Cu and (15)N(His) and, thus, can be assigned to coupling of the Cu-S stretch, nu(Cu-S), with cysteine and histidine vibrations of the Cu(2)Cys(2)His(2) core. The RR spectrum of the Cu(Z) site (Z(ox)) reveals a novel Cu-sulfur chromophore with four S isotope-sensitive modes at 293, 347, 352, and 408 cm(-1), with a total (34)S shift of -19.9 cm(-)(1). The magnitude of the S isotope shifts and wide spread of perturbed frequencies are similar to those observed in Cu(A) and therefore suggest a sulfur-bridged cluster in Z(ox). The Z(ox) site has its nu(Cu-S)-containing modes at higher energy and exhibits less mixing with ligand deformations, compared to Cu(A). Reduction by dithionite produces a mixed-valence Cu(Z) site (Z(mv)) with six S isotope-sensitive RR modes between 282 and 382 cm(-1) and a total (34)S-shift of -16.9 cm(-1). The observation of a nearly identical RR spectrum in the C622D variant of N(2)OR, which lacks one of the conserved Cu(A) Cys residues, establishes that Cu-S vibrations observed in this variant arise from the Z(mv) site. Furthermore, none of the features assigned to Cu(Z) are detected in a second variant that contains only Cu(A). Therefore the resonance Raman spectra reported here provide compelling evidence for a unique Cu-S cluster in the catalytic site of nitrous oxide reductase.
,   High-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HPLC/ESI-MS) can provide both elemental and molecular information and, therefore, is a very useful tool for the identification of arsenic compounds. When a method for the identification of four arsenosugars was employed in our laboratory with an HPLC/ESI-MS system equipped with a Whatman model 75-72 nitrogen generator, a signal at m/z 75 (As(+)) could not be observed. When the HPLC/ESI-MS system was operated with nitrogen 5.0 (nitrogen of a purity of at least 99.999%) all four arsenosugars gave a signal at m/z 75. Because of this observation the influence of the quality of the nitrogen drying gas on the fragmentation of the four arsenosugars was systematically investigated. Standard solutions containing the four arsenosugars (0.5 ng As each) were separated on an anion-exchange column and detected with ESI-MS in the positive ion mode by monitoring the signals for [M+H](+), m/z 237, 91, and 75. Nitrogen with defined oxygen concentrations was used as drying gas. The purity of the nitrogen ranged from 99 to 99.999% (10 400 to 10 ppm oxygen impurity). The nitrogen with 99% purity gave no signal at m/z 75, but signals were obtained at m/z 91, 237, and for [M+H](+). When higher purity nitrogen (99.9%) was used, a signal was obtained at m/z 75, which accounted for 0.8-1.1% (depending on the kind of arsenosugar) of the sum of the signals for m/z 75, 91, 237 and [M+H](+). As the level of oxygen in the nitrogen decreased, the m/z 75 signal increased to 2.0-3.1%. This was accompanied by a concomitant decrease in the m/z 91 signal from 5.2-6.6% to 0.7-1.5%, whereas the signals for [M+H](+) and m/z 237 were essentially unchanged. Signals at m/z 75 with intensities comparable with those observed for the 99.9% pure nitrogen were also obtained for all the arsenosugars when the HPLC/ESI-MS system was operated with a Domnick Hunter Nitrox UHPLCMS18 nitrogen generator. Dimethylarsinic acid, arsenobetaine, trimethylarsine oxide, arsenocholine and the tetramethylarsonium cation also gave no signal at m/z 75 when they were analyzed with the Whatman model 75-72 nitrogen generator, but clear signals at m/z 75 were observed with the Domnick Hunter Nitrox UHPLCMS18 nitrogen generator. A nitrogen quality of at least 99.9% is required to obtain elemental information (m/z 75) when arsenic compounds are investigated by HPLC/ESI-MS. Molecular and elemental information from one chromatographic run is a valuable tool for the characterization of unknown arsenic compounds.
,   The sex pheromone of the oak processionary moth Thaumetopoea processionea has been characterized from female gland extracts as a mixture of (Z,Z)-11,13-hexadecadienyl acetate (1), (E,Z)-11,13-hexadecadienyl acetate (3) and (Z,Z)-11,13-hexadecadienol (2) in 88:7:5 ratio. The amount of the major compound 1 was 20-30 ng/gland. No trace of (Z,Z)-11,13-hexadecadienal was found in the extract, and therefore, T. processionea appears to be the only "summer" processionary moth lacking this compound as a pheromone compound. The alcohol 2 had also been previously found but is electrophysiologically inactive, and in wind tunnel assays it lowers the number of contacts with the source when mixed with the major compound 1. The major component 1 elicited males to display the complete behavioral sequence, but the amount of chemical needed was unexpectedly high in comparison to the activity displayed by virgin females and gland extracts. (E,E)-11,13-hexadecadienyl acetate (5) inhibits the attractant activity of the major component 1 when mixed with 1 in 1:10 and 1:1 ratios. The main constituent 1 is active in the field, but its tendency to isomerize into the corresponding E,E isomer (5) must be considered if effective formulations are to be prepared.
,   The Lawesson reagent and P(2)S(5) mediated reductive coupling of phenalenone (6) gives LPAH peropyrene (5) in 47% and 54% yields. The mechanism of the reaction involves the formation of phenalenethione (10), Z- and E-1,1'-biphenalenylidene (3), and 9 as intermediates. The electrocyclization reaction of Z-3 to 9, followed by aromatization, gives 5. The results of an ab initio and DFT study of 3 and 2,2'-biphenalenylidene (12) are reported. E-3 and Z-3 have a diradical character with twist angles of 44.8 degrees and 57.8 degrees (at UB3LYP/6-311G**). Delta E(++)(Tot) = 10.2 kJ/mol and Delta G(++)(298) = 10.6 kJ/mol for E-3 <==> Z-3 diastereomerization. These unusually low energy barriers are due to the ground-state diradical destabilization and the aromatic stabilization of the transition state TS-3. Triplet Z-3 is higher in energy than singlets E-3 and Z-3 by 10.4 and 3.1 kJ/mol. In the concealed non-Kekulé 12, singlet 12 is more stable than the triplet by 1.3 kJ/mol. Singlet 12 is more stable than singlet E-3 by 2.0 kJ/mol, and orthogonal singlet TS-12 is lower in energy than singlet TS-3 by 6.0 kJ/mol. The energy barriers for the hexatriene-cyclohexadiene electrocyclization Z-3 --> 9 are Delta E(++)(Tot) = 94.8 and Delta G(++)(298) = 98.3 kJ/mol (at (U)B3LYP/6-31G). The reaction occurs thermally in a conrotatory mode.
,   This study analyzed the phase-angle (PA) values of hospitalized HVI-infected patients by comparing them with those reported for a healthy population and investigated their relation with nutritional parameters.s is a cross-sectional study including 101 hospitalized patients diagnosed with HIV infection and evaluated by bioimpedance, anthropometry and biochemical tests. The phase angle values, weight loss percentage (%WL), body mass index (BMI), arm muscle circumference (AMC), tricipital skinfold (TSF), body fat percentage (%BF) and albumin were considered. In order to compare with values for the healthy population, the PA z-score of the patients under study was calculated. Spearman's correlation and the multiple linear regression model were used to identify nutritional parameters associated with the PA z-score. patients showed a mean PA z-score of -2.6 ± 1.5, and only 6.6% of them with a positive value. The PA z-score values correlated with %WL (r = -0.51; p < 0.0001), albumin (r = 0.49; p < 0.0001), BMI (r = 0.58; p < 0.0001), AMC (r = 0.41; p < 0.0001), TSF (r = 0.47; p < 0.001) and %BF (r = 0.48, p < 0.0001). In multiple analysis %WL (p = 0.008), albumin (p = 0.01), AMC (p < 0.0001) and %BF (p = 0.0003) remained associated with the score. PA z-score values were observed, suggesting a worse clinical prognosis for the patients. The inclusion of the PA z-score as a nutritional indicator during care provision to HIV-infected patients is recommended.
,   The publication of the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group (ACOSOG) Z-0011 Trial concluded that axillary lymph node clearance is no longer necessary for women having breast conserving treatment with 1-2 positive axillary sentinel lymph glands. The current study was designed to investigate the clinical impact of the Z-0011 Trial in breast surgical practice. BreastSurgANZ National Breast Cancer Audit database was interrogated for women treated between 2005 and 2010 who would have met the entry criteria for the Z-0011 Trial. This group was then calculated as a proportion of the total breast cancer episodes treated during this period.otal of 64,883 cases of breast cancer were eligible for analysis. 22,731 underwent breast conserving surgery and sentinel node biopsy for invasive breast cancer. A total of 4482 cases (6.9%) fulfilled the criteria for Z-11 Trial.hough the ACOSOG Z-0011 Trial has important implications for sentinel node positive cases undergoing breast conserving treatment, the overall impact of the Trial in breast clinical practice is small. It cannot be described as "practice changing". Women who fulfil the entry criteria for the Z-0011 Trial should be informed of the clinical relevance of the trial and be permitted to participate in informed discussions with members of the multidisciplinary team regarding their treatment options.
,   The independence assumption for a case-only analysis of statistical interaction, i. e. that genetic (G) and environmental exposures (E) are not associated in the source population, is often checked in surrogate populations. Few studies have examined G-E association in empirical data, particularly in controls from population-based studies, the type of controls expected to provide the most valid surrogate estimates of G-E association. We used controls from two population-based case-control studies to evaluate G-E independence for 43 selected genetic polymorphisms and smoking behavior. The odds ratio (OR(z)) was used to estimate G-E association and, therefore, the magnitude of bias introduced into the case-only odds ratio (COR). Odds ratios of moderate magnitude [mmOR(z)], defined as OR(z)≤0.7 or OR(z)≥1.4, were found at least one of the six smoking measures (ever, former, current, cig/day, years smoked, pack-years) for 45% and 59% of the SNPs examined in the control groups of two independently conducted North Carolina studies, respectively. Consequently, case-only estimates of G-E interaction in the context of a multiplicative benchmark would be biased for these SNPs and smoking measures. MmOR(z)s were found more often for smoking amount than smoking status. We recommend that a stand-alone case-only study should only be conducted when G-E independence can be verified for each polymorphism and exposure metric with population-specific data. Our results suggest that OR(z) is specific to each underlying population rather than an estimate of a 'universal' OR(z) for that SNP and smoking measure. Further, misspecification of smoking is likely to introduce bias into the COR.
,   Progressive right ventricular (RV) dilation due to pulmonary regurgitation (PR) after repair of tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) may impair left ventricular (LV) filling. Our aim was to analyse long-term time courses of M-mode LV and RV measurements and to relate these to the degree of PR.rospective longitudinal cohort of children (n = 88) after repair of TOF followed by serial echocardiography over 9 years. LV and RV diameters were expressed by z-scores based on normal paediatric reference values. Time courses of LV and RV diameter z-scores, degree of PR, and influence of co-variables were analysed using mixed regression models. LV diameter z-scores were significantly lowered before repair, increased after surgery, but fell again over time; thus, mean LV diameters were significantly lower than normal population means at all times. LV diameter z-scores correlated negatively with RV dilation and degree of PR. Notably, they were significantly higher in patients with previous shunts. After pulmonary valve replacement, LV diameter z-scores recovered to normal, whereas RV diameter z-scores remained abnormal. results confirm progressive adverse RV-LV interaction in the long-term post-operative follow-up of TOF. The use of z-scores facilitated the analysis of time courses of LV and RV diameters.
,   The organization of the cytoskeletal proteins, alpha-actinin, vinculin and desmin, was studied in newborn hamster cardiomyocytes in vitro by immunofluorescent microscopy. Since there have been indications that the in vitro organization of certain cytoskeletal elements of cardiomyocytes is not the same as in vivo, the studies were designed to examine the reorganization of these proteins in cultured cells. The observations concentrated on three proteins that are known to be associated in vivo with myofibrillar Z-lines. Beginning at 2 days in culture, and during subsequent days, the proteins examined underwent substantial redistributions before they reorganized back to their associations with the myofibrillar Z-lines. The pattern and time course for these redistributions were characteristic for each protein. Alpha-actinin was the first to return to its typical location at the level of the Z-lines during the second day in culture, followed by desmin at 4 days. Vinculin usually did not become associated with the Z-lines until 6 days in vitro. In the present study, analyses of the distributions and redistributions of particular proteins in the cultured cardiomyocytes have been useful for helping to identify changes in the myocyte as a result of isolation and culture conditions. In addition, a better understanding of the temporal and spatial relationships between cytoskeletal proteins assembling into the Z-line area has been gained.
,   In a study of periurban Guatemalan school-children (89 males, 73 females) aged 81.5 +/- 7.0 mo (mean +/- SD), height, weight, arm circumference, and triceps-skinfold-thickness (TSF) measurements were examined in relation to plasma and hair zinc concentrations, plasma and red blood cell alkaline phosphatase activities, recognition thresholds for salt (RTS), delayed-cutaneous hypersensitivity response to seven recall skin test antigens, and cognitive measures. Children were stunted [median height-for-age (HA) Z score -1.49] but not wasted [median weight-for-height (WH) Z score 0.20], with median midarm muscle area (MAMA) and midarm-fat area (MAFA) Z scores of -0.57 and -0.35, respectively. Of the children, 63.5% of males and 44.1% of females had hair zinc < 1.68 mumol/g (P < 0.05); 12.3% of males and 1.5% of females had plasma zinc < 10.71 mumol/L (P < 0.05). Children with hair zinc < 1.68 mumol/g had higher (P < 0.05) medians for WA Z and WH Z scores, RTS, and phytic acid intake than did those with hair zinc > or = 1.68 mumol/g. Zinc status explained some of the variance in growth (HA, WA, and WH Z scores), body composition (MAFA Z scores), and taste acuity. Suboptimal zinc status arose partly from diets low in readily available zinc.
,   To ascertain growth and rehabilitation of children after transplantation, the North American Pediatric Renal Transplant Cooperative Study collected growth data on renal transplant recipients. From January 1987 through December 1990, a total of 1553 children with one or more transplants were entered into the study by its 75 participating centers. Of these, the first 300 children with a functioning graft and 2 years of linear growth data form the cohort for this study. For the total cohort of 300 patients, the mean (+/- SEM) baseline height z score was -2.41 +/- 0.09, and the change in z score determined after 2 years was 0.18 +/- 0.06 (p < 0.01). Children in the age group from birth to 1 year had the maximal deficit and had the maximal improvement in z score, gaining about 1 SD (p < 0.01). For the 2- to 5-year-old group, the change in z score was about 0.5 SD (p < 0.001). No improvement in z score was noted for children 6 to 17 years of age. Each increase in serum creatinine concentration of 90 mumol/L (1 mg/dl) was associated with -0.17 decrease in the z score (p < 0.001). Gender, donor source, history of previous transplantation, and prior dialysis were not associated with a significant change in the z score; thus the increased rate of growth during the first 2 post-transplantation years occurred mainly in subjects less than 6 years of age.
,   The genes moaABC of Escherichia coli were ligated into the expression vector pNCO113. The resulting plasmid was transformed into a moeA mutant of E. coli. From cultures of the recombinant strain, a pteridine designated compound Z could be isolated at 5 mg/liter. Compound Z is a product of precursor Z, a biosynthetic precursor of molybdopterin. Cultures of the recombinant E. coli strain were supplied with [U-(13)C6]glucose, [U-(13)C5]ribulose 5-phosphate, or [7-(15)N,8-(13)C]guanine. The culture medium also contained a large excess of unlabeled glucose. Compound Z as well as nucleosides obtained by hydrolysis of RNA were isolated from the bacterial cultures, and their heavy isotope distribution was investigated by one-dimensional and two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy. The labelling patterns of compound Z show that the carbon atoms of a pentose or pentulose are diverted to the ring atoms C6 and C7 and to the side chain atoms C2', C3' and C4' of compound Z. Carbon atom C1' of compound Z is derived from carbon atom C8 of a guanine derivative. The remodeling of the carbon skeleton of the pentose and purine moieties proceed via intramolecular rearrangement reactions.
,   Maintenance of cardiac structure and Z-disc signaling are key factors responsible for protecting the heart in a setting of stress, but how these processes are regulated is not well defined. We recently demonstrated that PI3K(p110α) protects the heart against myocardial infarction. The aim of this study was to determine whether PI3K(p110α) directly regulates components of the Z-disc and cardiac structure. To address this question, a unique three-dimensional virtual muscle model was applied to gene expression data from transgenic mice with increased or decreased PI3K(p110α) activity under basal conditions (sham) and in a setting of myocardial infarction to display the location of structural proteins. Key findings from this analysis were then validated experimentally. The three-dimensional virtual muscle model visually highlighted reciprocally regulated transcripts associated with PI3K activation that encoded key components of the Z-disc and costamere, including melusin. Studies were performed to assess whether PI3K and melusin interact in the heart. Here, we identify a novel melusin-PI3K interaction that generates lipid kinase activity. The direct impact of PI3K(p110α) on myocyte structure was assessed by treating neonatal rat ventricular myocytes with PI3K(p110α) inhibitors and examining the myofiber morphology of hearts from PI3K transgenic mice. Results demonstrate that PI3K is critical for myofiber maturation and Z-disc alignment. In summary, PI3K regulates the expression of genes essential for cardiac structure and Z-disc signaling, interacts with melusin, and is critical for Z-disc alignment.
,   Power and minimum detectable risk are calculated for seven one-sided tests of standardized mortality ratios with Poisson-distributed events. Each test contrasts the number of observed deaths (D) with the number expected (E). Three tests use exact Poisson probabilities: 1) the exact test, which computes a p value as the probability of equaling or exceeding the number of observed events; 2) the optimal randomized exact test which, although not used in practice, serves as a standard for the other statistics; and 3) the exact "mid-p" procedure, which counts only one-half the probability of the observed event. The remaining four tests use normal approximations to the Poisson ("Z statistics"): 4) Z = magnitude of D-E/square root of E; 5) the Z statistic corrected for continuity, Z = (magnitude of D-E)-0.5)/square root of E; 6) a statistic based on a square root transformation, Z = 2(square root of D-square root of E); and 7) a statistic created by Byar, which, when D is greater than E, is Z = square root of 9D[1-1/(9D)-3 square root of D/E]. Power differences among these procedures with one-sided alpha of 0.05, 0.025, and 0.01 are small as long as four or more events are expected. If fewer than four events are expected, the uncorrected Z has unacceptably high type I error. Simple approximations to the power and detectable risk of these tests are evaluated and prove satisfactory. Differences in minimum detectable risk, actual and approximated, are slight for E of 2.0 or more.
,   The ability of recA protein to interact with a Z-DNA polymer, Br-poly(dG-dC), or M13 bacteriophage single-stranded DNA was investigated. RecA protein binds more avidly to Z-DNA than to single-stranded DNA in the absence of a nucleotide cofactor. This binding pattern changes in the presence of adenosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate (ATP[S]), however, such that the binding to Z-DNA decreases while binding to single-stranded DNA increases roughly 2-fold. When present together, the two forms of DNA compete with each other in the presence of ATP[S]. Experiments involving recA protein binding to recombinant plasmids showed neither a preferential binding of recA protein to the plasmid containing Z-DNA nor a similar effect of ATP[S] to that observed with the Z-DNA polymer. In contrast, maximal binding was obtained with a plasmid (linear or supercoiled) containing a polypurine.polypyrimidine insert, thus suggesting that recA protein displays sequence preferences in its interaction with DNA. The results of the present study provide no evidence that recA protein specifically interacts with or stabilizes the Z-DNA insert of a recombinant plasmid in the left-handed conformation.
,   This multifactorial study investigates the interrelationships between head circumference (HC) and intellectual quotient (IQ), learning, nutritional status and brain development in Chilean school-age children graduating from high school, of both sexes and with high and low IQ and socio-economic strata (SES). The sample consisted of 96 right-handed healthy students (mean age 18.0 +/- 0.9 years) born at term. HC was measured both in the children and their parents and was expressed as Z-score (Z-HC). In children, IQ was determined by means of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Adults-Revised (WAIS-R), scholastic achievement (SA) through the standard Spanish language and mathematics tests and the academic aptitude test (AAT) score, nutritional status was assessed through anthropometric indicators, brain development was determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and SES applying the Graffar modified method. Results showed that microcephalic children (Z-HC < or = 2 S.D.) had significantly lower values mainly for brain volume (BV), parental Z-HC, IQ, SA, AAT, birth length (BL) and a significantly higher incidence of undernutrition in the first year of life compared with their macrocephalic peers (Z-HC > 2S.D.). Multiple regression analysis revealed that BV, parental Z-HC and BL were the independent variables with the greatest explanatory power for child's Z-HC variance (r(2) = 0.727). These findings confirm the hypothesis formulated in this study: (1) independently of age, sex and SES, brain parameters, parental HC and prenatal nutritional indicators are the most important independent variables that determine HC and (2) microcephalic children present multiple disorders not only related to BV but also to IQ, SA and nutritional background.
,   Pilots flying at very high speed are exposed to the effects of prolonged accelerations while changing their flight path. The aim of this research was to assess the impact of sustained accelerations on the visual-motor response times of pilots and the acceleration tolerance level (ATL) as a measure of pilots' endurance to applied +G(z). study involved 18 young pilots, 23-25 yr of age. The subjects' task was to quickly and accurately respond to the light stimuli presented on a light bar during exposure to acceleration at +4.5 G(z) and until reaching the ATL. Simple response time (SRT) measurements were performed using a visual-motor analysis system throughout the exposures, which allowed the assessment of a pilot's ATL. pilots' ATL ranged from 270 to 366 s (Mean = 317.7 +/- 26.15 SD). The analysis of the SRT indicated a significant effect of duration of acceleration on the visual response time. The results of the post hoc comparisons showed that SRT increased with longer durations of the same level of +G(z) load and then decreased, reaching values similar to the controls.osure to prolonged acceleration of +4.5 G(z) significantly increases SRT. There was no statistically significant difference in SRT between the pilots with "short" and "long" time exposures. A pilot's SRT during a prolonged +4.5 G(z) exposure could be a reliable indicator of pilot G performance in the fast jet. Deterioration of SRT may be used to predict imminent +G(z) endurance limits between pilots with widely varying endurance abilities.
,   Glu, Gln, Pro, and Ala are the main amino acids involved in ammonia detoxification in mosquitoes. In order to develop a tandem mass spectrometry method (MS(2)) to monitor each carbon of the above isotopically-labeled (13)C-amino acids for metabolic studies, the compositions and origins of atoms in fragments of the protonated amino acid should be first elucidated. Thus, various electrospray (ESI)-based MS(2) tools were employed to study the fragmentation of these unlabeled and isotopically-labeled amino acids and better understand their dissociation pathways. A broad range of fragments, including previously-undescribed low m/z fragments was revealed. The formulae of the fragments (from m/z 130 down to m/z 27) were confirmed by their accurate masses. The structures and conformations of the larger fragments of Glu were also explored by ion mobility mass spectrometry (IM-MS) and gas-phase hydrogen/deuterium exchange (HDX) experiments. It was found that some low m/z fragments (m/z 27-30) are common to Glu, Gln, Pro, and Ala. The origins of carbons in these small fragments are discussed and additional collision induced dissociation (CID) MS(2) fragmentation pathways are proposed for them. It was also found that small fragments (≤m/z 84) of protonated, methylated Glu, and methylated Gln are the same as those of the underivatized Glu and Gln. Taken together, the new approach of utilizing low m/z fragments can be applied to distinguish, identify, and quantify (13)C-amino acids labeled at various positions, either in the backbone or side chain.
]
