PSMB7,   Proteasomes play a major role in non-lysosomal proteolysis and also in the processing of proteins for presentation by the MHC class I pathway. In animal cells they exist in several distinct molecular forms which contribute to the different functions. 26S proteasomes contain the core 20S proteasome together with two 19S regulatory complexes. Alternatively, PA28 complexes can bind to the ends of the 20S proteasome to form PA28-proteasome complexes and PA28-proteasome-19S hybrid complexes have also been described. Immunoproteasome subunits occur in 26S proteasomes as well as in PA28-proteasome complexes. We have found differences in the subcellular distribution of the different forms of proteasomes. The gamma-interferon inducible PA28 alpha and beta subunits are predominantly located in the cytoplasm, while 19S regulatory complexes (present at significant levels only in 26S complexes) are present in the nucleus as well as in the cytoplasm. Immunoproteasomes are greatly enriched at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) where they may facilitate the generation of peptides for transport into the lumen of the ER. We have also investigated the effects of gamma-interferon on the levels and subcellular distribution of inducible subunits and regulator subunits. In each case gamma-interferon was found to increase the level but not to alter the distribution. Several subunits of proteasomes are phosphorylated including alpha subunits C8 (alpha7) and C9 (alpha3), and ATPase subunit S4 (rpt2). Our studies have shown that gamma-interferon treatment decreases the level of phosphorylation of proteasomes. We have investigated the role of phosphorylation of C8 by casein kinase II by site directed mutagenesis. The results demonstrate that phosphorylation at either one of the two sites is essential for the association of 19S regulatory complexes and that the ability to undergo phosphorylation at both sites gives the most efficient incorporation of C8 into the 26S proteasome.
PSMB7,   Colorectal adenocarcinoma is one of the worldwide leading causes of cancer deaths. Discovery of specific biomarkers for early detection of cancer progression and the identification of underlying pathogenetic mechanisms are important tasks. Global proteomic approaches have thus far been limited by the large dynamic range of molecule concentrations in tissues and the lack of selective enrichment of the low-abundance proteome. We studied paired cancerous and normal clinical tissue specimens from patients with colorectal adenocarcinomas by heparin affinity fractionation enrichment (HAFE) followed by 2-D PAGE and tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) identification. Fifty-six proteins were found to be differentially expressed, of which 32 low-abundance proteins were only detectable after heparin affinity enrichment. MS/MS was used to identify 5 selected differentially expressed proteins as proteasome subunit beta type 7 (PSB7), hemoglobin alpha subunit (HBA), peroxiredoxin-1 (PRDX1), argininosuccinate synthase (ASSY), and signal recognition particle 9 kDa protein (SRP9). This is the first proteomic study detecting the differential expression of these proteins in human colorectal cancer tissue. Several of the proteins are functionally related to tissue hypoxia and hypoxic adaptation. The relative specificities of PSB7, PRDX1, and SRP9 overexpression in colon cancer were investigated by Western blot analysis of patients with colon adenocarcinomas and comparison with a control cohort of patients with lung adenocarcinomas. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry on tissue sections was used to define the specific locations of PSB7, PRDX1, and SRP9 up-regulation within heterogeneous primary human tumor tissue. Overexpression of the three proteins was restricted to the neoplastic cancer cell population within the tumors, demonstrating both cytoplasmic and nuclear localization of PSB7 and predominantly cytoplasmic localization of PRDX1 and SRP9. In summary, we describe heparin affinity fractionation enrichment (HAFE) as a prefractionation tool for the study of the human primary tissue proteome and the discovery of PSB7, PRDX1, and SRP9 up-regulation as candidate biomarkers of colon cancer.
PSMB7,   The human immunodeficiency virus-1 Tat protein inhibits the peptidase activity of the 20S proteasome and competes with the 11S regulator/PA28 for binding to the 20S proteasome. Structural comparison revealed a common site in the Tat protein and the 11S regulator alpha-subunit (REGalpha) called the REG/Tat-proteasome-binding (RTP) site. Kinetic assays found amino acid residues Lys51, Arg52 and Asp67 forming the RTP site of Tat to be responsible for the effects on proteasomes in vitro. The RTP site identified in REGalpha consists of the residues Glu235, Lys236 and Lys239. Mutation of the REGalpha amino acid residues Glu235 and Lys236 to Ala resulted in an REGalpha mutant that lost the ability to activate the 20S proteasome even though it still forms complexes with REGbeta and binds to the 20S proteasome. The REGalpha RTP site is needed to enhance the presentation of a cytomegalovirus pp89 protein-derived epitope by MHC class I molecules in mouse fibroblasts. Cell experiments demonstrate that the Tat amino acid residues 37-72 are necessary for the interaction of the viral protein with proteasomes in vivo. Full-length Tat and the Tat peptide 37-72 suppressed 11S regulator-mediated presentation of the pp89 epitope. In contrast, the Tat peptide 37-72 with mutations of amino acid residues Lys51, Arg52 and Asp67 to Ala was not able to reduce antigen presentation.
PSMB7,   Protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor (ZPI) is a recently identified member of the serpin superfamily that functions as a cofactor-dependent regulator of blood coagulation factors Xa (FXa) and XIa. Here we show that ZPI and its cofactor, protein Z (PZ), inhibit procoagulant membrane-bound factor Xa by the branched pathway acyl-intermediate trapping mechanism used by other serpins, but with significant variations of this mechanism that are unique to ZPI. Rapid kinetic analyses showed that the reaction proceeded by the initial assembly of a membrane-associated PZ-ZPI-FXa Michaelis complex (K(M) 53+/-5 nM) followed by conversion to a stable ZPI-FXa complex (k(lim) 1.2+/-0.1 s(-1)). Cofactor premixing experiments together with independent kinetic analyses of ZPI-PZ and factor Xa-PZ-membrane complex formation suggested that assembly of the Michaelis complex through either ZPI-PZ-lipid or factor Xa-PZ-lipid intermediates was rate-limiting. Reaction stoichiometry analyses and native PAGE showed that for every factor Xa molecule inhibited by ZPI, two serpin molecules were cleaved. Native PAGE and immunoblotting showed that PZ dissociated from ZPI once ZPI forms a stable complex with FXa, and kinetic analyses confirmed that PZ acted catalytically to accelerate the membrane-dependent ZPI-factor Xa reaction. The ZPI-FXa complex was only transiently stable and dissociated with a rate constant that showed a bell-shaped pH dependence indicative of participation of factor Xa active-site residues. The complex was detectable by SDS-PAGE when denatured at low pH, consistent with it being a kinetically trapped covalent acyl-intermediate. Together our findings show that ZPI functions like other serpins to regulate the activity of FXa but in a manner uniquely dependent on protein Z, procoagulant membranes, and pH.
PSMB7,   Ubiquitination plays a key role in protein degradation and signal transduction. Ubiquitin is a small protein modifier that is adducted to lysine residues by the combined function of E1, E2, and E3 enzymes and is removed by deubiquitinating enzymes. Characterization of ubiquitination sites is important for understanding the role of this modification in cellular processes and disease. However, until recently, large-scale characterization of endogenous ubiquitination sites has been hampered by the lack of efficient enrichment techniques. The introduction of antibodies that specifically recognize peptides with lysine residues that harbor a di-glycine remnant (K-ε-GG) following tryptic digestion has dramatically improved the ability to enrich and identify ubiquitination sites from cellular lysates. We used this enrichment technique to study the effects of proteasome inhibition by MG-132 and deubiquitinase inhibition by PR-619 on ubiquitination sites in human Jurkat cells by quantitative high performance mass spectrometry. Minimal fractionation of digested lysates prior to immunoaffinity enrichment increased the yield of K-ε-GG peptides three- to fourfold resulting in detection of up to ~3300 distinct K-GG peptides in SILAC triple encoded experiments starting from 5 mg of protein per label state. In total, we identify 5533 distinct K-ε-GG peptides of which 4907 were quantified in this study, demonstrating that the strategy presented is a practical approach to perturbational studies in cell systems. We found that proteasome inhibition by MG-132 and deubiquitinase inhibition by PR-619 induces significant changes to the ubiquitin landscape, but that not all ubiquitination sites regulated by MG-132 and PR-619 are likely substrates for the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Additionally, we find that the proteasome and deubiquitinase inhibitors studied induced only minor changes in protein expression levels regardless of the extent of regulation induced at the ubiquitin site level. We attribute this finding to the low stoichiometry of the majority ubiquitination sites identified in this study.
PSMB7,   Replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in most primary cells and some immortalized T-cell lines depends on the activity of the viral infectivity factor (Vif). Vif has the ability to counteract a cellular inhibitor, recently identified as CEM15, that blocks infectivity of Vif-defective HIV-1 variants. CEM15 is identical to APOBEC3G and belongs to a family of proteins involved in RNA and DNA deamination. We cloned APOBEC3G from a human kidney cDNA library and confirmed that the protein acts as a potent inhibitor of HIV replication and is sensitive to the activity of Vif. We found that wild-type Vif inhibits packaging of APOBEC3G into virus particles in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, biologically inactive variants carrying in-frame deletions in various regions of Vif or mutation of two highly conserved cysteine residues did not inhibit packaging of APOBEC3G. Interestingly, expression of APOBEC3G in the presence of wild-type Vif not only affected viral packaging but also reduced its intracellular expression level. This effect was not seen in the presence of biologically inactive Vif variants. Pulse-chase analyses did not reveal a significant difference in the stability of APOBEC3G in the presence or absence of Vif. However, in the presence of Vif, the rate of synthesis of APOBEC3G was slightly reduced. The reduction of intracellular APOBEC3G in the presence of Vif does not fully account for the Vif-induced reduction of virus-associated APOBEC3G, suggesting that Vif may function at several levels to prevent packaging of APOBEC3G into virus particles.
PSMB7,   NEDD4-like ubiquitin ligase 2 (NEDL2) is a HECT type ubiquitin ligase. NEDL2 enhances p73 transcriptional activity and degrades ATR kinase in lamin misexpressed cells. Compared with the important functions of other HECT type ubiquitin ligase, there is less study concerning the function and regulation of NEDL2. Using primary antibody immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we identify a list of potential proteins that are putative NEDL2-interacting proteins. The candidate list contains many of mitotic proteins, especially including several subunits of anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) and Cdh1, an activator of APC/C. Cdh1 can interact with NEDL2 in vivo and in vitro. Cdh1 recognizes one of the NEDL2 destruction boxes (R(740)GSL(743)) and targets it for degradation in an APC/C-dependent manner during mitotic exit. Overexpression of Cdh1 reduces the protein level of NEDL2, whereas knockdown of Cdh1 increases the protein level of NEDL2 but has no effect on the NEDL2 mRNA level. NEDL2 associates with mitotic spindles, and its protein level reaches a maximum in mitosis. The function of NEDL2 during mitosis is essential because NEDL2 depletion prolongs metaphase, and overexpression of NEDL2 induces chromosomal lagging. Elevated expression of NEDL2 protein and mRNA are both found in colon cancer and cervix cancer. We conclude that NEDL2 is a novel substrate of APC/C-Cdh1 as cells exit mitosis and functions as a regulator of the metaphase to anaphase transition. Its overexpression may contribute to tumorigenesis. 
PSMB7,   Improving and targeting nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) are cost-effective strategies for reducing adverse health consequences for smokers. Treatment studies document the efficacy of precessation NRT and support important roles for level of nicotine dependence and precessation smoking reduction in successful quitting. However, prior work has not identified the optimal precessation dose or means for personalizing NRT. Genome-wide association has identified groups of genomic markers associated with successful quitting, allowing us to develop a v1.0 "quit-success" genotype score. We now report influences of v1.0 quit-success genotype score, level of dependence and precessation smoking reduction in a smoking cessation trial that examined effects of 21 versus 42 mg/24 h precessation NRT. Four hundred seventy-nine smokers were randomized to 21 or 42 mg NRT, initiated 2 wks prior to target quit dates. We monitored self-reported abstinence and end-expired air carbon monoxide (CO). Genotyping used Affymetrix arrays (Santa Clara, CA, USA). The primary outcome was 10-wk continuous smoking abstinence. NRT dose, level of nicotine dependence and genotype scores displayed significant interactive effects on successful quitting. Successful abstinence also was predicted by CO reductions during precessation NRT. These results document ways in which smoking cessation strategies can be personalized based on levels of nicotine dependence, genotype scores and CO monitoring. These assessments, taken together, can help match most smokers with optimal NRT doses and help rapidly identify some who may be better treated using other methods.
PSMB7,   An increasing body of evidence points to mitochondrial dysfunction as a contributor to the molecular pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease. Recent studies of the Parkinson's disease associated genes PINK1 (ref. 2) and parkin (PARK2, ref. 3) indicate that they may act in a quality control pathway preventing the accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria. Here we elucidate regulators that have an impact on parkin translocation to damaged mitochondria with genome-wide small interfering RNA (siRNA) screens coupled to high-content microscopy. Screening yielded gene candidates involved in diverse cellular processes that were subsequently validated in low-throughput assays. This led to characterization of TOMM7 as essential for stabilizing PINK1 on the outer mitochondrial membrane following mitochondrial damage. We also discovered that HSPA1L (HSP70 family member) and BAG4 have mutually opposing roles in the regulation of parkin translocation. The screens revealed that SIAH3, found to localize to mitochondria, inhibits PINK1 accumulation after mitochondrial insult, reducing parkin translocation. Overall, our screens provide a rich resource to understand mitochondrial quality control. 
PSMB7,   The mammalian spermatozoon has many cellular compartments, such as head and tail, permitting it to interact with the female reproductive tract and fertilize the egg. It acquires this fertilizing potential during transit through the epididymis, which secretes proteins that coat different sperm domains. Optimal levels of these proteins provide the spermatozoon with its ability to move to, bind to, fuse with, and penetrate the egg; otherwise male infertility results. As few human epididymal proteins have been characterized, this work was performed to generate a database of human epididymal sperm-located proteins involved in maturation. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of epididymal tissue and luminal fluid proteins, followed by identification using MALDI-TOF/MS or MALDI-TOF/TOF, revealed over a thousand spots in gels comprising 745 abundant nonstructural proteins, 408 in luminal fluids, of which 207 were present on spermatozoa. Antibodies raised to 619 recombinant or synthetic peptides, used in Western blots, histological sections, and washed sperm preparations to confirm antibody quality and protein expression, indicated their regional location in the epididymal epithelium and highly specific locations on washed functional spermatozoa. Sperm function tests suggested the role of some proteins in motility and protection against oxidative attack. A large database of these proteins, characterized by size, pI, chromosomal location, and function, was given a unified terminology reflecting their sperm domain location. These novel, secreted human epididymal proteins are potential targets for a posttesticular contraceptive acting to provide rapid, reversible, functional sterility in men and they are also biomarkers that could be used in noninvasive assessments of male fertility.
PSMB7,   Protein ubiquitination is a key regulatory process essential to life at a cellular level; significant efforts have been made to identify ubiquitinated proteins through proteomics studies, but the level of success has not reached that of heavily studied post-translational modifications, such as phosphorylation. HRD1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, has been implicated in rheumatoid arthritis, but no disease-relevant substrates have been identified. To identify these substrates, we have taken both peptide and protein level approaches to enrich for ubiquitinated proteins in the presence and absence of HRD1. At the protein level, a two-step strategy was taken using cells expressing His(6)-tagged ubiquitin, enriching proteins first based on their ubiquitination and second based on the His tag with protein identification by LC-MS/MS. Application of this method resulted in identification and quantification of more than 400 ubiquitinated proteins, a fraction of which were found to be sensitive to HRD1 and were therefore deemed candidate substrates. In a second approach, ubiquitinated peptides were enriched after tryptic digestion by peptide immunoprecipitation using an antibody specific for the diglycine-labeled internal lysine residue indicative of protein ubiquitination, with peptides and ubiquitination sites identified by LC-MS/MS. Peptide immunoprecipitation resulted in identification of over 1800 ubiquitinated peptides on over 900 proteins in each study, with several proteins emerging as sensitive to HRD1 levels. Notably, significant overlap exists between the HRD1 substrates identified by the protein-based and the peptide-based strategies, with clear cross-validation apparent both qualitatively and quantitatively, demonstrating the effectiveness of both strategies and furthering our understanding of HRD1 biology.
PSMB7,   Cyclin A is a stable protein in S and G2 phases, but is destabilized when cells enter mitosis and is almost completely degraded before the metaphase to anaphase transition. Microinjection of antibodies against subunits of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) or against human Cdc20 (fizzy) arrested cells at metaphase and stabilized both cyclins A and B1. Cyclin A was efficiently polyubiquitylated by Cdc20 or Cdh1-activated APC/C in vitro, but in contrast to cyclin B1, the proteolysis of cyclin A was not delayed by the spindle assembly checkpoint. The degradation of cyclin B1 was accelerated by inhibition of the spindle assembly checkpoint. These data suggest that the APC/C is activated as cells enter mitosis and immediately targets cyclin A for degradation, whereas the spindle assembly checkpoint delays the degradation of cyclin B1 until the metaphase to anaphase transition. The "destruction box" (D-box) of cyclin A is 10-20 residues longer than that of cyclin B. Overexpression of wild-type cyclin A delayed the metaphase to anaphase transition, whereas expression of cyclin A mutants lacking a D-box arrested cells in anaphase.
PSMB7,   An affinity purification strategy was developed to characterize human proteasome complexes diversity as well as endogenous proteasome-interacting proteins (PIPs). This single step procedure, initially used for 20 S proteasome purification, was adapted to purify all existing physiological proteasome complexes associated to their various regulatory complexes and to their interacting partners. The method was applied to the purification of proteasome complexes and their PIPs from human erythrocytes but can be used to purify proteasomes from any human sample as starting material. The benefit of in vivo formaldehyde cross-linking as a stabilizer of protein-protein interactions was studied by comparing the status of purified proteasomes and the identified proteins in both protocols (with or without formaldehyde cross-linking). Subsequent proteomics analyses identified all proteasomal subunits, known regulators, and recently assigned partners. Moreover other proteins implicated at different levels of the ubiquitin-proteasome system were also identified for the first time as PIPs. One of them, the ubiquitin-specific protease USP7, also known as HAUSP, is an important player in the p53-HDM2 pathway. The specificity of the interaction was further confirmed using a complementary approach that consisted of the reverse immunoprecipitation with HAUSP as a bait. Altogether we provide a valuable tool that should contribute, through the identification of partners likely to affect proteasomal function, to a better understanding of this complex proteolytic machinery in any living human cell and/or organ/tissue and in different cell physiological states.
PSMB7,   Progression through mitosis occurs because cyclin B/Cdc2 activation induces the anaphase promoting complex (APC) to cause cyclin B destruction and mitotic exit. To ensure that cyclin B/Cdc2 does not prematurely activate the APC in early mitosis, there must be a mechanism delaying APC activation. Emi1 is a protein capable of inhibiting the APC in S and G2. We show here that Emi1 is phosphorylated by Cdc2, and on a DSGxxS consensus site, is subsequently recognized by the SCF(betaTrCP/Slimb) ubiquitin ligase and destroyed, thus providing a delay for APC activation. Failure of betaTrCP-dependent Emi1 destruction stabilizes APC substrates and results in mitotic catastrophe including centrosome overduplication, potentially explaining mitotic deficiencies in Drosophila Slimb/betaTrCP mutants. We hypothesize that Emi1 destruction relieves a late prophase checkpoint for APC activation.
PSMB7,   The vif gene of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) encodes a basic Mr 23,000 protein that is necessary for production of infectious virions by nonpermissive cells (human lymphocytes and macrophages) but not by permissive cells such as HeLa-CD4. It had been proposed that permissive cells may contain an unidentified factor that functions like the viral Vif protein. To test this hypothesis, we produced pseudotyped wild-type and vif-deleted HIV gpt virions (which contain the HIV-1 genome with the bacterial mycophenolic acid resistance gene gpt in place of the viral env gene) in permissive cells, and we used them to generate nonpermissive H9 leukemic T cells that express these proviruses. We then fused these H9 cells with permissive HeLa cells that express the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120-gp41, and we asked whether the heterokaryons would release infectious HIV gpt virions. The results clearly showed that the vif-deleted virions released by the heterokaryons were noninfectious whereas the wild-type virions were highly infectious. This strongly suggests that nonpermissive cells, the natural targets of HIV-1, contain a potent endogenous inhibitor of HIV-1 replication that is overcome by Vif.
PSMB7,   Human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1) Vif protein plays an essential role in the regulation of the infectivity of HIV-1 virion. Vif functions to counteract an anti-HIV-1 cellular factor in non-permissive cells, CEM15/Apobec-3G, which shares a cytidine deaminase motif. CEM15/Apobec-3G deaminates dC to dU in the minus strand DNA of HIV-1, resulting in G to A hypermutation in the plus strand DNA. In this study, we have done the mutagenesis analysis on two cytidine deaminase motifs in CEM15/Apobec-3G and examined their antiviral functions as well as the DNA editing activity. Point mutations in the C-terminal active site such as E259Q and C291A almost completely abrogated the antiviral function, while those in the N-terminal active site such as E67Q and C100A retained this activity to a lesser extent as compared with that of the wild type. The DNA editing activities of E67Q and E259Q mutants were both retained but impaired to the same extent. This indicates that the enzymatic activity of this protein is essential but not a sole determinant of the antiviral activity. Furthermore, all the deletion mutants tested in this study lost the antiviral activity because of the loss of the activity for dimerization, suggesting that the entire protein structure is necessary for the antiviral function.
PSMB7,   Interferon (IFN) gamma induces replacements of the proteasomal subunits X and Y by LMP7 and LMP2, respectively, resulting in an alteration of the proteolytic specificity. We found a third pair of proteasome subunits expressed reciprocally in response to IFN-gamma. Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding one subunit designated as Z, downregulated by IFN-gamma, showed that it is a novel proteasomal subunit with high homology to MECL1, which is markedly induced by IFN-gamma. Thus, IFN-gamma induces subunit replacements of not only X and Y by LMP7 and LMP2, respectively, but also of Z by MECL1, producing proteasomes responsible for immunological processing of endogenous antigens. When processed from their precursors, three pairs of the 10 homologous, but distinct, beta-type subunits of eukaryotic proteasomes, that is, X/LMP7, Y/LMP2, and Z/MECL1, have an NH2-terminal threonine residue, assumed to be part of a catalytic center. These findings suggest that the altered molecular organization of the proteasome induced by IFN-gamma may be responsible for acquisition of its functional change.
PSMB7,   The 26S proteasome is a multisubunit complex responsible for degradation of ubiquitinated substrates, which plays a critical role in regulating various biological processes. To fully understand the function and regulation of the proteasome complex, an important step is to elucidate its subunit composition and posttranslational modifications. Toward this goal, a new affinity purification strategy has been developed using a derivative of the HB tag for rapid isolation of the human 26S proteasome complex for subsequent proteomic analysis. The purification of the complex is achieved from stable 293 cell lines expressing a HB-tagged proteasome subunit and by high-affinity streptavidin binding with TEV cleavage elution. The complete composition of the 26S proteasome complex, including recently assigned new subunits, is identified by LC-MS/MS. In addition, all known proteasome activator proteins and components involved in the ubiquitin-proteasome degradation pathway are identified. Aside from the subunit composition, the N-terminal modification and phosphorylation of the proteasome subunits have been characterized. Twelve novel phosphorylation sites from eight subunits have been identified, and N-terminal modifications are determined for 25 subunits, 12 of which have not been previously reported in mammals. We also observe different N-terminal processing of subunit Rpn2, which results in identification of two different N-termini of the protein. This work presents the first comprehensive characterization of the human 26S proteasome complex by affinity purification and tandem mass spectrometry. The detailed proteomic profiling obtained here is significant to future studies aiming at a complete understanding of the structure-function relationship of the human 26S proteasome complex.
PSMB7,   The proteasome, a proteolytic complex present in all eukaryotic cells, is part of the ATP-dependent ubiquitin/proteasome pathway. It plays a critical role in the regulation of many physiological processes. The 20 S proteasome, the catalytic core of the 26 S proteasome, is made of four stacked rings of seven subunits each (alpha7beta7beta7alpha7). Here we studied the human 20 S proteasome using proteomics. This led to the establishment of a fine subunit reference map and to the identification of post-translational modifications. We found that the human 20 S proteasome, purified from erythrocytes, exhibited a high degree of structural heterogeneity, characterized by the presence of multiple isoforms for most of the alpha and beta subunits, including the catalytic ones, resulting in a total of at least 32 visible spots after Coomassie Blue staining. The different isoforms of a given subunit displayed shifted pI values, suggesting that they likely resulted from post-translational modifications. We then took advantage of the efficiency of complementary mass spectrometric approaches to investigate further these protein modifications at the structural level. In particular, we focused our efforts on the alpha7 subunit and characterized its N-acetylation and its phosphorylation site localized on Ser(250).
PSMB7,   Protein ubiquitination via the covalent attachment of ubiquitin (Ub) plays an important role in the regulation of the stability, function or localization of multiple proteins in eukaryotic cells. Comprehensive investigation of the proteomics related to ubiquitination will gain the insight into the Ub-mediated regulatory mechanism. In the present study, the combination of polyUb affinity purification, SDS-PAGE separation, and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis (GeLC-MS/MS) was employed to analyze the Ub-related proteins in human MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma epithelial cells after treatment with the proteasome inhibitor MG132. A total of 260 non-redundant Ub-related proteins were identified from the cells. These proteins were shown to be involved in a host of critical cellular functions and processes, including transcription, translation, Ub-proteasome pathway, cell cycle, heat shock response, transport, etc. The interaction network analysis by STRING indicated that the identified Ub-related proteins formed eleven clusters, the three most highly ranked network clusters were mainly involved in protein translation, RNA transcription and processing, and Ub-proteasome pathway, suggesting that there were obvious ubiquitination-mediated alternations in gene expression of human MDA-MB-231 cells. The proteomic profiling and their interaction network analysis in this study would help to our systematic understanding of the Ub-related cellular protein functions and the related biological processes in human disease tissue cells.
PSMB7,   Viral replication usually requires that innate intracellular lines of defence be overcome, a task usually accomplished by specialized viral gene products. The virion infectivity factor (Vif) protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is required during the late stages of viral production to counter the antiviral activity of APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G; also known as CEM15), a protein expressed notably in human T lymphocytes. When produced in the presence of APOBEC3G, vif-defective virus is non-infectious. APOBEC3G is closely related to APOBEC1, the central component of an RNA-editing complex that deaminates a cytosine residue in apoB messenger RNA. APOBEC family members also have potent DNA mutator activity through dC deamination; however, whether the editing potential of APOBEC3G has any relevance to HIV inhibition is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that it does, as APOBEC3G exerts its antiviral effect during reverse transcription to trigger G-to-A hypermutation in the nascent retroviral DNA. We also find that APOBEC3G can act on a broad range of retroviruses in addition to HIV, suggesting that hypermutation by editing is a general innate defence mechanism against this important group of pathogens.
PSMB7,   High mutation frequency during reverse transcription has a principal role in the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations. It is the main driving force for the generation of drug resistance and the escape from immune surveillance. G to A hypermutation is one of the characteristics of primate lentiviruses, as well as other retroviruses, during replication in vivo and in cell culture. The molecular mechanisms of this process, however, remain to be clarified. Here, we demonstrate that CEM15 (also known as apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G; APOBEC3G), an endogenous inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication, is a cytidine deaminase and is able to induce G to A hypermutation in newly synthesized viral DNA. This effect can be counteracted by the HIV-1 virion infectivity factor (Vif). It seems that this viral DNA mutator is a viral defence mechanism in host cells that may induce either lethal hypermutation or instability of the incoming nascent viral reverse transcripts, which could account for the Vif-defective phenotype. Importantly, the accumulation of CEM15-mediated non-lethal hypermutation in the replicating viral genome could potently contribute to the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations.
PSMB7,   Protein Z (PZ) is a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein that plays a role in both pro-and anticoagulant pathways, but its exact physiological function remains unclear. The aim of this study was to determine the association between the G79A PZ gene polymorphism in intron F, PZ levels and the occurrence of ischemic stroke.performed a case-control study in 118 Caucasian patients with first ever ischemic stroke or TIA confirmed by CT, and 113 age-and sex-matched population controls. Venous blood samples for PZ levels were collected 7 to 14 days and 3 months after stroke onset. Estimates of relative risk (odds ratios) were adjusted for vascular risk factors. adjusted relative risk of ischemic stroke associated with PZ levels in the lowest quartile versus the highest quartile was 3.0 (95% CI: 1.1-8.7) at 7-14 days, and 5.1 (95% CI: 1.2-21.9) at 3 months after the stroke. PZ levels in the convalescent sample were significantly lower than in the acute sample. In the convalescent sample, odds ratios increased with lower quartiles of protein Z level (test for trend p=0.02). Thirty-nine patients (33%) and 32 (28%) controls were heterozygous for the G79A PZ gene polymorphism and 4 (3%) patients and 4 (4%) controls had the AA-genotype. The PZ levels were significantly lower in subjects with the AA-genotype and intermediate in heterozygote subjects. The odds ratio of ischemic stroke associated with A-allele carriers versus GG-homozygotes was 1.2 (95% CI: 0.7-2.1).association between the G79A PZ gene polymorphism and the occurrence of stroke was observed. However, low PZ levels are independently associated with an increased risk of ischemic stroke.
PSMB7,   The cytokine-inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) is constitutively expressed in human respiratory epithelia and is upregulated in inflammatory lung disease. Here, we sought to better define the protein interactions that may be important for NOS2 activity and stability, as well as to identify potential targets of NOS2-derived NO, in the respiratory epithelium. We overexpressed Flag-tagged, catalytically-inactive NOS2 in A549 cells and used mass spectrometry to qualitatively identify NOS2 co-immunoprecipitating proteins. Stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) was used to quantify the coordinate effects of cytokine stimulation on NOS2-protein interactions. Multi-protein networks dominated the NOS2 interactome, and cytokine-inducible interactions with allosteric activators and with the ubiquitin-proteasome system were correlated with cytokine-dependent increases in NO metabolites and in NOS2 ubiquitination. The ubiquitin ligase scaffolding protein, FBXO45, was identified as a novel, direct NOS2 interactor. Similar to the SPRY domain-containing SOCS box (SPSB) proteins, FBXO45 requires Asn27 in the (23)DINNN(27) motif of NOS2 for its interaction. However, FBXO45 is unique from the SPSBs in that it recruits a distinct E3 ligase complex containing MYCBP2 and SKP1. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the general utility of interaction proteomics for defining new aspects of NOS2 physiology.
PSMB7,   The assembly of individual proteasome subunits into catalytically active mammalian 20S proteasomes is not well understood. Using subunit-specific antibodies, we characterized both precursor and mature proteasome complexes. Antibodies to PSMA4 (C9) immunoprecipitated complexes composed of alpha, precursor beta and processed beta subunits. However, antibodies to PSMA3 (C8) and PSMB9 (LMP2) immunoprecipitated complexes made up of alpha and precursor beta but no processed beta subunits. These complexes possess short half-lives, are enzymatically inactive and their molecular weight is approximately 300 kDa. Radioactivity chases from these complexes into mature, long-lived approximately 700 kDa proteasomes. Therefore, these structures represent precursor proteasomes and are probably made up of two rings: one containing alpha subunits and the other, precursor beta subunits. The assembly of precursor proteasomes occurs in at least two stages, with precursor beta subunits PSMB2 (C7-I), PSMB3 (C10-II), PSMB7 (Z), PSMB9 (LMP2) and PSMB10 (LMP10) being incorporated before others [PSMB1 (C5), PSMB6 (delta), and PSMB8 (LMP7)]. Proteasome maturation (processing of the beta subunits and juxtaposition of the two beta rings) is accompanied by conformational changes in the (outer) alpha rings, and may be inefficient. Finally, interferon-gamma had no significant effect on the half-lives or total amounts of precursor or mature proteasomes.
PSMB7,   The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) relies on Vif (viral infectivity factor) to overcome the potent antiviral function of APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G, also known as CEM15). Using an APOBEC3G-specific antiserum, we now show that Vif prevents virion incorporation of endogenous APOBEC3G by effectively depleting the intracellular levels of this enzyme in HIV-1-infected T cells. Vif achieves this depletion by both impairing the translation of APOBEC3G mRNA and accelerating the posttranslational degradation of the APOBEC3G protein by the 26S proteasome. Vif physically interacts with APOBEC3G, and expression of Vif alone in the absence of other HIV-1 proteins is sufficient to cause depletion of APOBEC3G. These findings highlight how the bimodal translational and posttranslational inhibitory effects of Vif on APOBEC3G combine to markedly suppress the expression of this potent antiviral enzyme in virally infected cells, thereby effectively curtailing the incorporation of APOBEC3G into newly formed HIV-1 virions.
PSMB7,   Dendritic cells (DC) are professional antigen-presenting cells that activate CTL by presenting MHC class I-restricted peptides that are processed through the proteasome pathway. Previously, we reported that upon DC maturation the synthesis is switched towards the exclusive production of immunoproteasomes containing the active site subunits LMP2, LMP7 and MECL-1. In this study we investigated the mechanism by which proteasome assembly is regulated in mature DC. Quantitative analysis of mRNA expression showed very limited transcriptional induction of LMP7, MECL-1 and UMP1 in mature DC and a moderate mRNA increment for LMP2 and PA28alpha and beta. We investigated a role of PA28alpha/beta in regulating proteasome assembly in DC. PA28alpha/beta coprecipitated with 13S/16S proteasome precursor complexes but associated with mature constitutive and immunoproteasomes to the same extent. Furthermore, we determined the steady-state proteasome subunit composition in DC. Replacement of constitutive proteasomes by immunoproteasomes in maturing DC was very slow and occurred only to a minor extent. Our data suggest that the limited turnover of 20S proteasomes in mature DC probably contributes little to recently reported marked differences in antigen presentation between immature and mature DC and that alternative mechanisms may be responsible for this phenomenon.
PSMB7,   The PARKIN ubiquitin ligase (also known as PARK2) and its regulatory kinase PINK1 (also known as PARK6), often mutated in familial early-onset Parkinson's disease, have central roles in mitochondrial homeostasis and mitophagy. Whereas PARKIN is recruited to the mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM) upon depolarization via PINK1 action and can ubiquitylate porin, mitofusin and Miro proteins on the MOM, the full repertoire of PARKIN substrates--the PARKIN-dependent ubiquitylome--remains poorly defined. Here we use quantitative diGly capture proteomics (diGly) to elucidate the ubiquitylation site specificity and topology of PARKIN-dependent target modification in response to mitochondrial depolarization. Hundreds of dynamically regulated ubiquitylation sites in dozens of proteins were identified, with strong enrichment for MOM proteins, indicating that PARKIN dramatically alters the ubiquitylation status of the mitochondrial proteome. Using complementary interaction proteomics, we found depolarization-dependent PARKIN association with numerous MOM targets, autophagy receptors, and the proteasome. Mutation of the PARKIN active site residue C431, which has been found mutated in Parkinson's disease patients, largely disrupts these associations. Structural and topological analysis revealed extensive conservation of PARKIN-dependent ubiquitylation sites on cytoplasmic domains in vertebrate and Drosophila melanogaster MOM proteins. These studies provide a resource for understanding how the PINK1-PARKIN pathway re-sculpts the proteome to support mitochondrial homeostasis.
PSMB7,   Mammalian proteasomes are macromolecular complexes formed of a catalytic 20S core associated to two regulatory complexes. The 20S core complex consists of four stacked rings of seven alpha or beta subunits. Three beta subunits contain a catalytic site and can be replaced by three interferon gamma-inducible counterparts to form the immunoproteasome. Cells may constitutively possess a mixture of both 20S proteasome types leading to a heterogeneous proteasome population. Purified rat 20S proteasome has been separated in several chromatographic fractions indicating an even higher degree of complexity in 20S proteasome subunit composition. This complexity may arise from the presence of subunit isoforms, as previously detected in purified human erythrocyte 20S proteasome. In this study, we have used a quantitative proteomic approach based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and isotope-coded affinity tag (ICAT) labeling to quantify the variations in subunit composition, including subunit isoforms, of 20S proteasomes purified from different cells. The protocol has been adapted to the analysis of low quantities of 20S proteasome complexes. The strategy has then been validated using standard proteins and has been applied to the comparison of 20S proteasomes from erythrocytes and U937 cancer cells. The results obtained show that this approach represents a valuable tool for the study of 20S proteasome heterogeneity.
PSMB7,   Post-translational modification of proteins by ubiquitin is a fundamentally important regulatory mechanism. However, proteome-wide analysis of endogenous ubiquitylation remains a challenging task, and almost always has relied on cells expressing affinity tagged ubiquitin. Here we combine single-step immunoenrichment of ubiquitylated peptides with peptide fractionation and high-resolution mass spectrometry to investigate endogenous ubiquitylation sites. We precisely map 11,054 endogenous putative ubiquitylation sites (diglycine-modified lysines) on 4,273 human proteins. The presented data set covers 67% of the known ubiquitylation sites and contains 10,254 novel sites on proteins with diverse cellular functions including cell signaling, receptor endocytosis, DNA replication, DNA damage repair, and cell cycle progression. Our method enables site-specific quantification of ubiquitylation in response to cellular perturbations and is applicable to any cell type or tissue. Global quantification of ubiquitylation in cells treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 discovers sites that are involved in proteasomal degradation, and suggests a nonproteasomal function for almost half of all sites. Surprisingly, ubiquitylation of about 15% of sites decreased more than twofold within four hours of MG-132 treatment, showing that inhibition of proteasomal function can dramatically reduce ubiquitylation on many sites with non-proteasomal functions. Comparison of ubiquitylation sites with acetylation sites reveals an extensive overlap between the lysine residues targeted by these two modifications. However, the crosstalk between these two post-translational modifications is significantly less frequent on sites that show increased ubiquitylation upon proteasome inhibition. Taken together, we report the largest site-specific ubiquitylation dataset in human cells, and for the first time demonstrate proteome-wide, site-specific quantification of endogenous putative ubiquitylation sites.
PSMB7,   The National Institutes of Health's Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC) project was designed to generate and sequence a publicly accessible cDNA resource containing a complete open reading frame (ORF) for every human and mouse gene. The project initially used a random strategy to select clones from a large number of cDNA libraries from diverse tissues. Candidate clones were chosen based on 5'-EST sequences, and then fully sequenced to high accuracy and analyzed by algorithms developed for this project. Currently, more than 11,000 human and 10,000 mouse genes are represented in MGC by at least one clone with a full ORF. The random selection approach is now reaching a saturation point, and a transition to protocols targeted at the missing transcripts is now required to complete the mouse and human collections. Comparison of the sequence of the MGC clones to reference genome sequences reveals that most cDNA clones are of very high sequence quality, although it is likely that some cDNAs may carry missense variants as a consequence of experimental artifact, such as PCR, cloning, or reverse transcriptase errors. Recently, a rat cDNA component was added to the project, and ongoing frog (Xenopus) and zebrafish (Danio) cDNA projects were expanded to take advantage of the high-throughput MGC pipeline.
PSMB7,   Replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in primary blood lymphocytes, certain T-cell lines (nonpermissive cells), and most likely in vivo is highly dependent on the virally encoded Vif protein. Evidence suggests that Vif acts late in the viral life cycle during assembly, budding, and/or maturation to counteract the antiviral activity of the CEM15 protein and possibly other antiviral factors. Because HIV-1 virions produced in the absence of Vif are severely restricted at a postentry, preintegration step of infection, it is presumed that such virions differ from wild-type virions in some way. In the present study, we established a protocol for producing large quantities of vif-deficient HIV-1 (HIV-1/Delta vif) from an acute infection of nonpermissive T cells and performed a thorough examination of the defect in these virions. Aside from the expected lack of Vif, we observed no apparent abnormalities in the packaging, modification, processing, or function of proteins in Delta vif virions. In addition, we found no consistent defect in the ability of Delta vif virions to perform intravirion reverse transcription under a variety of assay conditions, suggesting that the reverse transcription complexes in these particles can behave normally under cell-free conditions. Consistent with this finding, neither the placement of the primer tRNA3Lys nor its ability to promote reverse transcription in an in vitro assay was affected by a lack of Vif. Based on the inability of this comprehensive analysis to uncover molecular defects in Delta vif virions, we speculate that such defects are likely to be subtle and/or rare.
PSMB7,   Targeted degradation of proteins through the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) via the activities of E3 ubiquitin ligases regulates diverse cellular processes, and misregulation of these enzymes contributes to the pathogenesis of human diseases. One of the challenges facing the UPS field is to delineate the complete cohort of substrates for a particular E3 ligase. Advances in mass spectrometry and the development of antibodies recognizing the Lys-ϵ-Gly-Gly (diGly) remnant from ubiquitinated proteins following trypsinolysis have provided a tool to address this question. We implemented an inducible loss of function approach in combination with quantitative diGly proteomics to find novel substrates of HUWE1 (HECT, UBA, and WWE domain containing 1, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase), an E3 ligase implicated in cancer and intellectual disabilities. diGly proteomics results led to the identification of DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4) as a putative HUWE1 substrate. Cell-based assays demonstrated that HUWE1 interacts with and regulates ubiquitination and stability of DDIT4. Together these data suggest a model in which HUWE1 mediates DDIT4 proteasomal degradation. Our results demonstrate proof of concept that inducible knockdown of an E3 ligase in combination with diGly proteomics provides a potentially advantageous method for identifying novel E3 substrates that may help to identify candidates for therapeutic modulation in the UPS. 
PSMB7,   Protein interactions form a network whose structure drives cellular function and whose organization informs biological inquiry. Using high-throughput affinity-purification mass spectrometry, we identify interacting partners for 2,594 human proteins in HEK293T cells. The resulting network (BioPlex) contains 23,744 interactions among 7,668 proteins with 86% previously undocumented. BioPlex accurately depicts known complexes, attaining 80%-100% coverage for most CORUM complexes. The network readily subdivides into communities that correspond to complexes or clusters of functionally related proteins. More generally, network architecture reflects cellular localization, biological process, and molecular function, enabling functional characterization of thousands of proteins. Network structure also reveals associations among thousands of protein domains, suggesting a basis for examining structurally related proteins. Finally, BioPlex, in combination with other approaches, can be used to reveal interactions of biological or clinical significance. For example, mutations in the membrane protein VAPB implicated in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis perturb a defined community of interactors. 
PSMB7,   Converting lead compounds into drug candidates is a crucial step in drug development, requiring early assessment of potency, selectivity, and off-target effects. We have utilized activity-based chemical proteomics to determine the potency and selectivity of deubiquitylating enzyme (DUB) inhibitors in cell culture models. Importantly, we characterized the small molecule PR-619 as a broad-range DUB inhibitor, and P22077 as a USP7 inhibitor with potential for further development as a chemotherapeutic agent in cancer therapy. A striking accumulation of polyubiquitylated proteins was observed after both selective and general inhibition of cellular DUB activity without direct impairment of proteasomal proteolysis. The repertoire of ubiquitylated substrates was analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry, identifying distinct subsets for general or specific inhibition of DUBs. This enabled identification of previously unknown functional links between USP7 and enzymes involved in DNA repair.
PSMB7,   Cellular processes often depend on stable physical associations between proteins. Despite recent progress, knowledge of the composition of human protein complexes remains limited. To close this gap, we applied an integrative global proteomic profiling approach, based on chromatographic separation of cultured human cell extracts into more than one thousand biochemical fractions that were subsequently analyzed by quantitative tandem mass spectrometry, to systematically identify a network of 13,993 high-confidence physical interactions among 3,006 stably associated soluble human proteins. Most of the 622 putative protein complexes we report are linked to core biological processes and encompass both candidate disease genes and unannotated proteins to inform on mechanism. Strikingly, whereas larger multiprotein assemblies tend to be more extensively annotated and evolutionarily conserved, human protein complexes with five or fewer subunits are far more likely to be functionally unannotated or restricted to vertebrates, suggesting more recent functional innovations.
PSMB7,   Proteins that fail to correctly fold or assemble into oligomeric complexes in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by a ubiquitin- and proteasome-dependent process known as ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although many individual components of the ERAD system have been identified, how these proteins are organized into a functional network that coordinates recognition, ubiquitylation and dislocation of substrates across the ER membrane is not well understood. We have investigated the functional organization of the mammalian ERAD system using a systems-level strategy that integrates proteomics, functional genomics and the transcriptional response to ER stress. This analysis supports an adaptive organization for the mammalian ERAD machinery and reveals a number of metazoan-specific genes not previously linked to ERAD.
PSMB7,   Nephronophthisis (NPHP), Joubert (JBTS), and Meckel-Gruber (MKS) syndromes are autosomal-recessive ciliopathies presenting with cystic kidneys, retinal degeneration, and cerebellar/neural tube malformation. Whether defects in kidney, retinal, or neural disease primarily involve ciliary, Hedgehog, or cell polarity pathways remains unclear. Using high-confidence proteomics, we identified 850 interactors copurifying with nine NPHP/JBTS/MKS proteins and discovered three connected modules: "NPHP1-4-8" functioning at the apical surface, "NPHP5-6" at centrosomes, and "MKS" linked to Hedgehog signaling. Assays for ciliogenesis and epithelial morphogenesis in 3D renal cultures link renal cystic disease to apical organization defects, whereas ciliary and Hedgehog pathway defects lead to retinal or neural deficits. Using 38 interactors as candidates, linkage and sequencing analysis of 250 patients identified ATXN10 and TCTN2 as new NPHP-JBTS genes, and our Tctn2 mouse knockout shows neural tube and Hedgehog signaling defects. Our study further illustrates the power of linking proteomic networks and human genetics to uncover critical disease pathways.
PSMB7,   As a base for human transcriptome and functional genomics, we created the "full-length long Japan" (FLJ) collection of sequenced human cDNAs. We determined the entire sequence of 21,243 selected clones and found that 14,490 cDNAs (10,897 clusters) were unique to the FLJ collection. About half of them (5,416) seemed to be protein-coding. Of those, 1,999 clusters had not been predicted by computational methods. The distribution of GC content of nonpredicted cDNAs had a peak at approximately 58% compared with a peak at approximately 42%for predicted cDNAs. Thus, there seems to be a slight bias against GC-rich transcripts in current gene prediction procedures. The rest of the cDNAs unique to the FLJ collection (5,481) contained no obvious open reading frames (ORFs) and thus are candidate noncoding RNAs. About one-fourth of them (1,378) showed a clear pattern of splicing. The distribution of GC content of noncoding cDNAs was narrow and had a peak at approximately 42%, relatively low compared with that of protein-coding cDNAs.
PSMB7,   To date individual markers have failed to correctly predict resistance against anticancer agents in breast cancer. We used gene expression patterns attributable to chemotherapy-resistant cells to detect potential new biomarkers related to anthracycline resistance. One of the genes, PSMB7, was selected for further functional studies and clinical validation.contrasted the expression profiles of four pairs of different human tumour cell lines and of their counterparts resistant to doxorubicin. Observed overexpression of PSMB7 in resistant cell lines was validated by immunohistochemistry. To examine its function in chemoresistance, we silenced the gene by RNA interference (RNAi) in doxorubicin-resistant MCF-7 breast cancer cells, then cell vitality was measured after doxorubicin treatment. Microarray gene expression from GEO raw microarray samples with available progression-free survival data was downloaded, and expression of PSMB7 was used for grouping samples.er doxorubicin treatment, 79.8+/-13.3% of resistant cells survived. Silencing of PSMB7 in resistant cells decreased survival to 31.8+/-6.4% (P>0.001). A similar effect was observed after paclitaxel treatment. In 1592 microarray samples, the patients with high PSMB7 expression had a significantly shorter survival than the patients with low expression (P<0.001). findings suggest that high PSMB7 expression is an unfavourable prognostic marker in breast cancer.
PSMB7,   Centrosome morphology and number are frequently deregulated in cancer cells. Here, to identify factors that are functionally relevant for centrosome abnormalities in cancer cells, we established a protein-interaction network around 23 centrosomal and cell-cycle regulatory proteins, selecting the interacting proteins that are deregulated in cancer for further studies. One of these components, LGALS3BP, is a centriole- and basal body-associated protein with a dual role, triggering centrosome hypertrophy when overexpressed and causing accumulation of centriolar substructures when downregulated. The cancer cell line SK-BR-3 that overexpresses LGALS3BP exhibits hypertrophic centrosomes, whereas in seminoma tissues with low expression of LGALS3BP, supernumerary centriole-like structures are present. Centrosome hypertrophy is reversed by depleting LGALS3BP in cells endogenously overexpressing this protein, supporting a direct role in centrosome aberration. We propose that LGALS3BP suppresses assembly of centriolar substructures, and when depleted, causes accumulation of centriolar complexes comprising CPAP, acetylated tubulin and centrin.
PSMB7,   The search of new pharmacological targets with original mechanism of action within the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is still a goal to be reached in oncopharmacology. Modification by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation has been found to be involved in cancer and to regulate functional activity of proteasome. Until now, phosphorylated forms of alpha subunits of the 20S human proteasome have been mostly reported. Here, we have rationally designed a polyclonal antibody specifically directed against a phosphorylated peptide sequence bearing the beta7 subunit Ser249 residue of the human 20S proteasome. This anti-beta7 phosphoSer249 antibody appeared to be a probe of choice to detect the presence of a phosphorylated isoform of the beta7 subunit of the human 20S proteasome using mono or two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. PhosphoSer249 was sensitive to acid phosphatase treatment of native 20S proteasome. Dephosphorylation affected the peptidylglutamyl-peptide hydrolyzing activity whereas the chymotrypsin-like and trypsin-like activities remained unchanged. A comparative analysis between human normal and tumor cells showed a differential expression of the phosphoSer249 beta7 isoform with a significantly lower detection in the proteasome isolated from tumor cells, suggesting its possible use as a biomarker.
PSMB7,   Immunoproteasomes and standard proteasomes assemble by alternative pathways that bias against the formation of certain "mixed" proteasomes. Differences between beta subunit propeptides contribute to assembly specificity and an assembly chaperone, proteassemblin, may be involved via differential propeptide interactions. We investigated possible mechanisms of biased proteasome assembly and the role of proteassemblin by identifying protein-protein interactions among human 20S proteasome subunits and proteassemblin using a yeast two-hybrid interaction assay. Forty-one interactions were detected, including five involving proteassemblin and contiguous beta subunits, which suggests that proteassemblin binds to preproteasomes via a beta subunit surface. Interaction between proteassemblin and beta5, but not beta5i, suggests that proteassemblin may be involved in the propeptide-dependent differential incorporation of these subunits. Interactions between proteassemblin and beta1, beta1i, and beta7 suggest that proteassemblin may regulate preproteasome dimerization via interactions with the C-termini of these subunits, which in the mature 20S structure extend to contact opposing beta subunit rings.
PSMB7,   Here, we apply the COmbined FRActional DIagonal Chromatography (COFRADIC) technology to enrich for ubiquitinated peptides and to identify sites of ubiquitination by mass spectrometry. Our technology bypasses the need to overexpress tagged variants of ubiquitin and the use of sequence-biased antibodies recognizing ubiquitin remnants. In brief, all protein primary amino groups are blocked by chemical acetylation, after which ubiquitin chains are proteolytically and specifically removed by the catalytic core domain of the USP2 deubiquitinase (USP2cc). Because USP2cc cleaves the isopeptidyl bond between the ubiquitin C-terminus and the ε-amino group of the ubiquitinated lysine, this enzyme reintroduces primary ε-amino groups in proteins. These amino groups are then chemically modified with a handle that allows specific isolation of ubiquitinated peptides during subsequent COFRADIC chromatographic runs. This method led to the identification of over 7500 endogenous ubiquitination sites in more than 3300 different proteins in a native human Jurkat cell lysate. 
PSMB7,   Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) Vif is essential for viral evasion of host antiviral factor CEM15/APOBEC3G. We report that Vif interacts with cellular proteins Cul5, elongins B and C, and Rbx1 to form an Skp1-cullin-F-box (SCF)-like complex. The ability of Vif to suppress antiviral activity of APOBEC3G was specifically dependent on Cul5-SCF function, allowing Vif to interact with APOBEC3G and induce its ubiquitination and degradation. A Vif mutant that interacted with APOBEC3G but not with Cul5-SCF was functionally inactive. The Cul5-SCF was also required for Vif function in distantly related simian immunodeficiency virus mac. These results indicate that the conserved Cul5-SCF pathway used by Vif is a potential target for antiviral development.
PSMB7,   The viral infectivity factor (Vif) encoded by HIV-1 neutralizes a potent antiviral pathway that occurs in human T lymphocytes and several leukemic T-cell lines termed nonpermissive, but not in other cells termed permissive. In the absence of Vif, this antiviral pathway efficiently inactivates HIV-1. It was recently reported that APOBEC3G (also known as CEM-15), a cytidine deaminase nucleic acid-editing enzyme, confers this antiviral phenotype on permissive cells. Here we describe evidence that Vif binds APOBEC3G and induces its rapid degradation, thus eliminating it from cells and preventing its incorporation into HIV-1 virions. Studies of Vif mutants imply that it contains two domains, one that binds APOBEC3G and another with a conserved SLQ(Y/F)LA motif that mediates APOBEC3G degradation by a proteasome-dependent pathway. These results provide promising approaches for drug discovery.
PSMB7,   The human protein apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme-catalytic polypeptide-like-3G (APOBEC3G), also known as CEM-15, mediates a newly described form of innate resistance to retroviral infection by catalyzing the deamination of deoxycytidine to deoxyuridine in viral cDNA replication intermediates. Because DNA deamination takes place after virus entry into target cells, APOBEC3G function is dependent on its association with the viral nucleoprotein complexes that synthesize cDNA and must therefore be incorporated into virions as they assemble in infected cells. Here we show that the HIV-1 virion infectivity factor (Vif) protein protects the virus from APOBEC3G-mediated inactivation by preventing its incorporation into progeny virions, thus allowing the ensuing infection to proceed without DNA deamination. In addition to helping exclude APOBEC3G from nascent virions, Vif also removes APOBEC3G from virus-producing cells by inducing its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation by the proteasome. Our findings indicate that pharmacologic strategies aimed at stabilizing APOBEC3G in HIV-1 infected cells should be explored as potential HIV/AIDS therapeutics.
PSMB7,   Despite the diverse biological pathways known to be regulated by ubiquitylation, global identification of substrates that are targeted for ubiquitylation has remained a challenge. To globally characterize the human ubiquitin-modified proteome (ubiquitinome), we utilized a monoclonal antibody that recognizes diglycine (diGly)-containing isopeptides following trypsin digestion. We identify ~19,000 diGly-modified lysine residues within ~5000 proteins. Using quantitative proteomics we monitored temporal changes in diGly site abundance in response to both proteasomal and translational inhibition, indicating both a dependence on ongoing translation to observe alterations in site abundance and distinct dynamics of individual modified lysines in response to proteasome inhibition. Further, we demonstrate that quantitative diGly proteomics can be utilized to identify substrates for cullin-RING ubiquitin ligases. Interrogation of the ubiquitinome allows for not only a quantitative assessment of alterations in protein homeostasis fidelity, but also identification of substrates for individual ubiquitin pathway enzymes.
PSMB7,   APOBEC3G is a human cellular enzyme that is incorporated into retroviral particles and acts to restrict retroviral replication in infected cells by deaminating dC to dU in the first (minus)-strand cDNA replication intermediate. HIV, however, encodes a protein (virion infectivity factor, Vif ), which overcomes APOBEC3G-mediated restriction but by an unknown mechanism. Here, we show that Vif triggers APOBEC3G degradation by a proteasome-dependent pathway and that an 80 amino acid region of APOBEC3G surrounding its first zinc coordination motif is sufficient to confer the ability to partake in an interaction involving Vif. Inhibitors of this interaction might therefore prove therapeutically useful in blocking Vif-mediated APOBEC3G destruction.
PSMB7,   Protein ubiquitylation has emerged as a key regulatory mechanism in DNA-damage signalling and repair pathways. We report a proteome-wide, site-specific survey of ubiquitylation changes after ultraviolet irradiation, identifying numerous upregulated and downregulated ubiquitylation sites on known components of DNA-damage signalling, as well as on proteins not previously implicated in this process. Our results uncover a critical role for PCNA-associated factor PAF15 (p15(PAF)/KIAA0101) ubiquitylation during DNA replication. During unperturbed S phase, chromatin-associated PAF15 is modified by double mono-ubiquitylation of Lys 15 and 24 templated through PCNA binding. Replication blocks trigger rapid, proteasome-dependent removal of Lys 15/24-ubiquitylated PAF15 from PCNA, facilitating bypass of replication-fork-blocking lesions by allowing recruitment of translesion DNA synthesis polymerase polη to mono-ubiquitylated PCNA at stalled replisomes. Our findings demonstrate widespread involvement of ubiquitin signalling in genotoxic-stress responses and identify a critical function for dynamic PAF15 ubiquitylation in safeguarding genome integrity when DNA replication is challenged.
PSMB7,   The immune system can recognize antigenic peptides derived from tumors by their presentation on MHC class I complexes to CTLs. Immunoproteasomes (i20S) can substantially enhance the MHC class I peptide repertoire, making down-regulation of i20S an important strategy of tumor cells in manipulating immune surveillance. Here, we report that human cancer cells express the nonfunctional immunosubunit-variant LMP7E1, in addition to, or instead of LMP7E2, in response to IFN-gamma. This preferential expression of LMP7E1 and the consequent down-regulation of LMP7E2 results in i20S deficiency. The molecular explanation for this phenomenon is the incapacity of LMP7E1 to interact efficiently with the proteasome maturation protein, which regularly recruits LMP7E2 into nascent i20S precursor complexes. In contrast to previous reports, i20S formation in these cancer cells cannot be restored by IFN-gamma treatment. However, expression of LMP7E2 in these cells restores the i20S-deficient phenotype. Thus, our data describe a novel mechanism that contributes to the process of oncogenesis.
PSMB7,   CEM15/APOBEC3G is a cellular protein required for resistance to infection by virion infectivity factor (Vif)-deficient human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Here, using a murine leukemia virus (MLV)-based system, we provide evidence that CEM15/APOBEC3G is a DNA deaminase that is incorporated into virions during viral production and subsequently triggers massive deamination of deoxycytidine to deoxyuridine within the retroviral minus (first)-strand cDNA, thus providing a probable trigger for viral destruction. Furthermore, HIV Vif can protect MLV from this CEM15/APOBEC3G-dependent restriction. These findings imply that targeted DNA deamination is a major strategy of innate immunity to retroviruses and likely also contributes to the sequence variation observed in many viruses (including HIV).
PSMB7,   The covalent attachment of ubiquitin to proteins regulates numerous processes in eukaryotic cells. Here we report the identification of 753 unique lysine ubiquitylation sites on 471 proteins using higher-energy collisional dissociation on the LTQ Orbitrap Velos. In total 5756 putative ubiquitin substrates were identified. Lysine residues targeted by the ubiquitin-ligase system show no unique sequence feature. Surface accessible lysine residues located in ordered secondary regions, surrounded by smaller and positively charged amino acids are preferred sites of ubiquitylation. Lysine ubiquitylation shows promiscuity at the site level, as evidenced by low evolutionary conservation of ubiquitylation sites across eukaryotic species. Among lysine modifications a significant overlap (20%) between ubiquitylation and acetylation at site level highlights extensive competitive crosstalk among these modifications. This site-specific crosstalk is not prevalent among cell cycle ubiquitylations. Between SUMOylation and ubiquitylation the preferred interaction is through mixed-chain conjugation. Overall these data provide novel insights into the site-specific selection and regulatory function of lysine ubiquitylation.
PSMB7,   Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are proteases that can antagonize ubiquitin-mediated signaling by disassembling ubiquitin-protein conjugates. How DUBs are regulated in vivo and how their substrate specificities are achieved are largely unknown. The conserved DUB Uch37 is found on proteasomes in organisms ranging from fission yeast to humans. Deubiquitination by Uch37 is activated by proteasomal binding, which enables Uch37 to process polyubiquitin chains. Here we show that in the nucleus Uch37 is also associated with the human Ino80 chromatin-remodeling complex (hINO80). In hINO80, Uch37 is held in an inactive state; however, it can be activated by transient interaction of the Ino80 complex with the proteasome. Thus, DUB activities can be modulated both positively and negatively via dynamic interactions with partner proteins. In addition, our findings suggest that the proteasome and the hINO80 chromatin-remodeling complex may cooperate to regulate transcription or DNA repair, processes in which both complexes have been implicated.
PSMB7,   The yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) system is the most widely applied methodology for systematic protein-protein interaction (PPI) screening and the generation of comprehensive interaction networks. We developed a novel Y2H interaction screening procedure using DNA microarrays for high-throughput quantitative PPI detection. Applying a global pooling and selection scheme to a large collection of human open reading frames, proof-of-principle Y2H interaction screens were performed for the human neurodegenerative disease proteins huntingtin and ataxin-1. Using systematic controls for unspecific Y2H results and quantitative benchmarking, we identified and scored a large number of known and novel partner proteins for both huntingtin and ataxin-1. Moreover, we show that this parallelized screening procedure and the global inspection of Y2H interaction data are uniquely suited to define specific PPI patterns and their alteration by disease-causing mutations in huntingtin and ataxin-1. This approach takes advantage of the specificity and flexibility of DNA microarrays and of the existence of solid-related statistical methods for the analysis of DNA microarray data, and allows a quantitative approach toward interaction screens in human and in model organisms.
PSMB7,   The HIV-1 accessory protein Vif (virion infectivity factor) is required for the production of infectious virions by CD4(+) lymphocytes. Vif facilitates particle infectivity by blocking the inhibitory activity of APOBEC3G (CEM15), a virion-encapsidated cellular protein that deaminates minus-strand reverse transcript cytosines to uracils. We report that HIV-1 Vif forms a complex with human APOBEC3G that prevents its virion encapsidation. HIV-1 Vif did not efficiently form a complex with mouse APOBEC3G. Vif dramatically reduced the amount of human APOBEC3G encapsidated in HIV-1 virions but did not prevent encapsidation of mouse or AGM APOBEC3G. As a result, these enzymes are potent inhibitors of wild-type HIV-1 replication. The species-specificity of this interaction may play a role in restricting HIV-1 infection to humans. Together these findings suggest that therapeutic intervention that either induced APOBEC3G or blocked its interaction with Vif could be clinically beneficial.
PSMB7,   Animal cells have developed many ways to suppress viral replication, and viruses have evolved diverse strategies to resist these. Here we provide evidence that the virion infectivity factor protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) functions to counteract a newly discovered activity in human cells that otherwise inhibits virus replication. This anti-viral phenotype is shown by human T cells, the principal in vivo targets for HIV-1, and, based on our present understanding of virion infectivity factor action, is presumed to act by interfering with a late step(s) in the virus life cycle. These observations indicate that the inhibition of virion infectivity factor function in vivo may prevent HIV-1 replication by 'unmasking' an innate anti-viral phenotype.
PSMB7,   Tyrosine kinases play a prominent role in human cancer, yet the oncogenic signaling pathways driving cell proliferation and survival have been difficult to identify, in part because of the complexity of the pathways and in part because of low cellular levels of tyrosine phosphorylation. In general, global phosphoproteomic approaches reveal small numbers of peptides containing phosphotyrosine. We have developed a strategy that emphasizes the phosphotyrosine component of the phosphoproteome and identifies large numbers of tyrosine phosphorylation sites. Peptides containing phosphotyrosine are isolated directly from protease-digested cellular protein extracts with a phosphotyrosine-specific antibody and are identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Applying this approach to several cell systems, including cancer cell lines, shows it can be used to identify activated protein kinases and their phosphorylated substrates without prior knowledge of the signaling networks that are activated, a first step in profiling normal and oncogenic signaling networks.
PSMB7,   The polo-like kinase (Plk) has been shown to be associated with the anaphase-promoting complex at the transition from metaphase to anaphase and to regulate ubiquitination, the process that targets proteins for degradation by proteasomes. In this study, we have identified proteasomal proteins interacting with Plk by mass spectrometry and found that Plk and 20S proteasome subunits could be reversibly immunoprecipitated from both human CA46 cells and HEK 293 cells transfected with HA-Plk. Furthermore, both coprecipitated Plk and baculovirus-expressed Plk were able to phosphorylate proteasome subunits, and metabolic labeling studies indicate that Plk is partially responsible for the phosphorylation of 20S proteasome subunits C9 and C8 in vivo. In addition, phosphorylation of proteasomes by Plk enhanced proteolytic activity toward an artificial substrate Suc-L-L-V-Y-AMC in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we were also able to detect Plk associated with 26S proteasomes under certain conditions. Together our results suggest that Plk is an important mitotic regulator of proteasome activity.
PSMB7,   Viruses have developed diverse non-immune strategies to counteract host-mediated mechanisms that confer resistance to infection. The Vif (virion infectivity factor) proteins are encoded by primate immunodeficiency viruses, most notably human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1). These proteins are potent regulators of virus infection and replication and are consequently essential for pathogenic infections in vivo. HIV-1 Vif seems to be required during the late stages of virus production for the suppression of an innate antiviral phenotype that resides in human T lymphocytes. Thus, in the absence of Vif, expression of this phenotype renders progeny virions non-infectious. Here, we describe a unique cellular gene, CEM15, whose transient or stable expression in cells that do not normally express CEM15 recreates this phenotype, but whose antiviral action is overcome by the presence of Vif. Because the Vif:CEM15 regulatory circuit is critical for HIV-1 replication, perturbing the circuit may be a promising target for future HIV/AIDS therapies.
PSMB7,   Protein acetylation has emerged as a major mechanism in regulating cellular metabolism. Whereas most glycolytic steps are reversible, the reaction catalyzed by pyruvate kinase is irreversible, and the reverse reaction requires phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK1) to commit for gluconeogenesis. Here, we show that acetylation regulates the stability of the gluconeogenic rate-limiting enzyme PEPCK1, thereby modulating cellular response to glucose. High glucose destabilizes PEPCK1 by stimulating its acetylation. PEPCK1 is acetylated by the P300 acetyltransferase, and this acetylation stimulates the interaction between PEPCK1 and UBR5, a HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase, therefore promoting PEPCK1 ubiquitinylation and degradation. Conversely, SIRT2 deacetylates and stabilizes PEPCK1. These observations represent an example that acetylation targets a metabolic enzyme to a specific E3 ligase in response to metabolic condition changes. Given that increased levels of PEPCK are linked with type II diabetes, this study also identifies potential therapeutic targets for diabetes.
PSMB7,   The proteasome is an essential component of the ATP-dependent proteolytic pathway in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for the degradation of most cellular proteins. The 20S (700-kDa) proteasome contains multiple peptidase activities that function through a new type of proteolytic mechanism involving a threonine active site. The 26S (2000-kDa) complex, which degrades ubiquitinated proteins, contains in addition to the 20S proteasome a 19S regulatory complex composed of multiple ATPases and components necessary for binding protein substrates. The proteasome has been highly conserved during eukaryotic evolution, and simpler forms are even found in archaebacteria and eubacteria. Major advances have been achieved recently in our knowledge about the molecular organization of the 20S and 19S particles, their subunits, the proteasome's role in MHC-class 1 antigen presentation, and regulators of its activities. This article focuses on recent progress concerning the biochemical mechanisms and intracellular functions of the 20S and 26S proteasomes.
PSMB7,   We have devised a method to replace the cap structure of a mRNA with an oligoribonucleotide (r-oligo) to label the 5' end of eukaryotic mRNAs. The method consists of removing the cap with tobacco acid pyrophosphatase (TAP) and ligating r-oligos to decapped mRNAs with T4 RNA ligase. This reaction was made cap-specific by removing 5'-phosphates of non-capped RNAs with alkaline phosphatase prior to TAP treatment. Unlike the conventional methods that label the 5' end of cDNAs, this method specifically labels the capped end of the mRNAs with a synthetic r-oligo prior to first-strand cDNA synthesis. The 5' end of the mRNA was identified quite simply by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
PSMB7,   FK506-binding protein 38 (FKBP38) is a member of the immunophilin family that resides in the mitochondrial outer membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. To investigate the physiological function of FKBP38, we performed a comprehensive search for proteins with which it interacts in human cells by liquid chromatographic and mass spectrometric analysis of FKBP38 immunoprecipitates. Almost all subunits of the 26S proteasome were thus found to interact with FKBP38. In vivo co-immunoprecipitation analyses confirmed that FKBP38 indeed associates with the 26S proteasome via its three tandem tetratricopeptide repeats (TPRs). Binding assays in vitro also revealed that FKBP38 directly interacts with the S4 subunit of the 19S proteasome. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the subcellular distributions of FKBP38 and the 26S proteasome partially overlapped at mitochondria. Both the abundance and activity of the proteasome in a membrane fraction were markedly reduced for mouse embryonic fibroblasts prepared from Fkbp38(-/-) mice compared with those prepared from wild-type mice. These results suggest that FKBP38 functions to anchor the 26S proteasome at the organellar membrane.
PSMB7,   Protein-protein interaction maps provide a valuable framework for a better understanding of the functional organization of the proteome. To detect interacting pairs of human proteins systematically, a protein matrix of 4456 baits and 5632 preys was screened by automated yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) interaction mating. We identified 3186 mostly novel interactions among 1705 proteins, resulting in a large, highly connected network. Independent pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays validated the overall quality of the Y2H interactions. Using topological and GO criteria, a scoring system was developed to define 911 high-confidence interactions among 401 proteins. Furthermore, the network was searched for interactions linking uncharacterized gene products and human disease proteins to regulatory cellular pathways. Two novel Axin-1 interactions were validated experimentally, characterizing ANP32A and CRMP1 as modulators of Wnt signaling. Systematic human protein interaction screens can lead to a more comprehensive understanding of protein function and cellular processes.
PSMB7,   The Anaphase-Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) ubiquitin ligase mediates degradation of cell cycle proteins during mitosis and G1. Cdc20/Fzy and Cdh1/Fzr are substrate-specific APC/C activators. The level of mammalian Cdh1 is high in mitosis, but it is inactive and does not bind the APC/C. We show that when Cdh1 is active in G1 and G0, its levels are considerably lower and almost all of it is APC/C associated. We demonstrate that Cdh1 is subject to APC/C-specific degradation in G1 and G0, and that this degradation depends upon two RXXL-type destruction boxes. We further demonstrate that addition of Cdh1 to Xenopus interphase extracts, which have an inactive APC/C, activates it to degrade Cdh1. These observations indicate that Cdh1 mediates its own degradation by activating the APC/C to degrade itself. Elevated levels of Cdh1 are deleterious for cell cycle progression in various organisms. This auto-regulation of Cdh1 could thus play a role in ensuring that the level of Cdh1 is reduced during G1 and G0, allowing it to be switched off at the correct time.
PSMB7,   The proteasomal system consists of a proteolytic core, the 20 S proteasome, which associates in an ATP-dependent reaction with the 19 S regulatory complex to form the functional 26 S proteasome. In the absence of ATP, the 20 S proteasome forms a complex with the gamma-interferon-inducible 11 S regulator. Both the 20 S proteasome and the 11 S regulator have been implied in the generation of antigenic peptides. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 Tat protein causes a number of different effects during acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Here we show that HIV-1 Tat protein strongly inhibits the peptidase activity of the 20 S proteasome and that it interferes with formation of the 20 S proteasome-11 S regulator complex. In addition, it slightly increases the activity of purified 26 S proteasome. These results may explain the mechanism by which HIV-1-infected cells escape cytotoxic T lymphocyte response and at least in part immunodeficiency in AIDS patients.
PSMB7,   Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) integrase catalyzes the irreversible insertion of the viral genome into host chromosomal DNA. We have developed a mammalian expression system for the synthesis of authentic HIV-1 integrase in the absence of other viral proteins. Integrase, which bears a N-terminal phenylalanine, was found to be a short-lived protein in human embryo kidney 293T cells. The degradation of integrase could be suppressed by proteasome inhibitors. N-terminal phenylalanine is recognized as a degradation signal by a ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic system known as the N-end rule pathway. The replacement of N-terminal phenylalanine with methionine, valine, or glycine, which are stabilizing residues in the N-end rule, resulted in metabolically stabilized integrase proteins (half-life of N-terminal Met-integrase was at least 3 h). Conversely, the substitution of N-terminal phenylalanine with other destabilizing residues retained the metabolic instability of integrase. These findings indicate that the HIV-1 integrase is a physiological substrate of the N-end rule. We discuss a possible functional similarity to the better understood turnover of the bacteriophage Mu transposase and functions of integrase instability to the maintenance and integrity of the host cell genome.
PSMB7,   The quality control of proteins mediated by the plasticity of the proteasome system is regulated by the timely and flexible formation of this multisubunit proteolytic enzyme complex. Adaptable biogenesis of the 20S proteasome core complex is therefore of vital importance for adjusting to changing proteolytic requirements. However, the molecular mechanism and the cellular sites of mammalian proteasome formation are still unresolved. By using precursor complex-specific antibodies, we now show that the main steps in 20S core complex formation take place at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Thereby, the proteasome maturation protein (POMP)--an essential factor of mammalian proteasome biogenesis--interacts with ER membranes, binds to alpha1-7 rings, recruits beta-subunits stepwise and mediates the association of mammalian precursor complexes with the ER. Thus, POMP facilitates the main steps in 20S core complex formation at the ER to coordinate the assembly process and to provide cells with freshly formed proteasomes at their site of function.
PSMB7,   Several studies on disposal of nonsecreted Ig L chains have identified the endoplasmic reticulum as the site of degradation. Here, we examine degradation of a nonsecreted Ig L chain, T15L, and an experimentally endoplasmic reticulum-retained secretion-competent L chain, D16L, in the absence of H chains. We demonstrate that 1) degradation is specifically impaired by the proteasome-specific inhibitors carboxybenzyl-leucyl-leucyl-leucine vinyl sulfone (Z-L3VS) and lactacystin, 2) L chain degradation occurs early in the biosynthetic pathway, and 3) degradation does not require vesicular transport. Our findings indicate that previous assertions of L chain disposal within the endoplasmic reticulum must be modified. To our knowledge, we provide the first direct evidence supporting a new paradigm for removal of nonsecreted Ig L chains via dislocation to cytosolic proteasomes.
PSMB7,   Urine results from a coordinated activity of glomerular and tubular compartments of the kidney. As a footprint of these cellular functional processes, urinary exosomes, and 40-80 nm membrane vesicles released after fusion with the plasma membrane into the extracellular environment by renal epithelial cells, are a source for identification of proteins and investigation of their role in the kidney. The aim of the present study was the identification of podocyte exosome proteins based on urine immunoabsorption using podocyte-specific CR1-immunocoated beads followed by proteomic analysis using LC MS/MS techniques. This methodology allowed the identification of 1195 proteins. By using a bioinformatic approach, 27 brain-expressed proteins were identified, in which 14 out of them were newly demonstrated to be expressed in the kidney at a mRNA level, and, one of them, the COMT protein, was demonstrated to be expressed in podocytes at a protein level. These results, attesting the reliability of the methodology to identify podocyte proteins, need now to be completed by further experiments to analyze more precisely their biological function(s) in the podocytes.
PSMB7,   Interferon (IFN)-induced immunoproteasomes (i-proteasomes) have been associated with improved processing of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigens. Here, we show that i-proteasomes function to protect cell viability under conditions of IFN-induced oxidative stress. IFNs trigger the production of reactive oxygen species, which induce protein oxidation and the formation of nascent, oxidant-damaged proteins. We find that the ubiquitylation machinery is concomitantly upregulated in response to IFNs, functioning to target defective ribosomal products (DRiPs) for degradation by i-proteasomes. i-proteasome-deficiency in cells and in murine inflammation models results in the formation of aggresome-like induced structures and increased sensitivity to apoptosis. Efficient clearance of these aggregates by the enhanced proteolytic activity of the i-proteasome is important for the preservation of cell viability upon IFN-induced oxidative stress. Our findings suggest that rather than having a specific role in the production of class I antigens, i-proteasomes increase the peptide supply for antigen presentation as part of a more general role in the maintenance of protein homeostasis.
PSMB7,   Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) represent the largest E3 ubiquitin ligase family in eukaryotes, and the identification of their substrates is critical to understanding regulation of the proteome. Using genetic and pharmacologic Cullin inactivation coupled with genetic (GPS) and proteomic (QUAINT) assays, we have identified hundreds of proteins whose stabilities or ubiquitylation status are regulated by CRLs. Together, these approaches yielded many known CRL substrates as well as a multitude of previously unknown putative substrates. We demonstrate that one substrate, NUSAP1, is an SCF(Cyclin F) substrate during S and G2 phases of the cell cycle and is also degraded in response to DNA damage. This collection of regulated substrates is highly enriched for nodes in protein interaction networks, representing critical connections between regulatory pathways. This demonstrates the broad role of CRL ubiquitylation in all aspects of cellular biology and provides a set of proteins likely to be key indicators of cellular physiology.
PSMB7,   Proteome-scale protein interaction maps are available for many organisms, ranging from bacteria, yeast, worms and flies to humans. These maps provide substantial new insights into systems biology, disease research and drug discovery. However, only a small fraction of the total number of human protein-protein interactions has been identified. In this study, we map the interactions of an unbiased selection of 5026 human liver expression proteins by yeast two-hybrid technology and establish a human liver protein interaction network (HLPN) composed of 3484 interactions among 2582 proteins. The data set has a validation rate of over 72% as determined by three independent biochemical or cellular assays. The network includes metabolic enzymes and liver-specific, liver-phenotype and liver-disease proteins that are individually critical for the maintenance of liver functions. The liver enriched proteins had significantly different topological properties and increased our understanding of the functional relationships among proteins in a liver-specific manner. Our data represent the first comprehensive description of a HLPN, which could be a valuable tool for understanding the functioning of the protein interaction network of the human liver.
PSMB7,   The human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) Tat protein was previously reported to compete the association of PA28 regulator with the alpha rings of the 20S proteasome and to inhibit its peptidase activity. However, the distinct interaction sites within the proteasome complex remained to be determined. Here we show that HIV-1 Tat binds to alpha4 and alpha7, six beta subunits of the constitutive 20S proteasome and the interferon-gamma-inducible subunits beta2i and beta5i. A Tat-proteasome interaction can also be demonstrated in vivo and leads to inhibition of proteasomal activity. This indicates that Tat can modulate or interfere with cellular proteasome function by specific interaction with distinct proteasomal subunits.
PSMB7,   Generating a catalogue of sperm nuclear proteins is an important first step towards the clarification of the function of the paternal chromatin transmitted to the oocyte upon fertilization. With this goal, sperm nuclei were obtained through CTAB treatment and isolated to over 99.9% purity without any tail fragments, acrosome or mitochondria as assessed by optical microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The nuclear proteins were extracted and separated in 2-D and 1-D gels and the 2-D spots and 1-D bands were excised and analysed to identify the proteins through LC-MS/MS. With this approach, 403 different proteins have been identified from the isolated sperm nuclei. The most abundant family of proteins identified are the histones, for which several novel members had not been reported previously as present in the spermatogenic cell line or in the human mature spermatozoa. More than half (52.6%) of the proteins had not been detected in the previous human whole sperm cell proteome reports. Of relevance, several chromatin-related proteins, such as zinc fingers and transcription factors, so far not known to be associated with the sperm chromatin, have also been detected. This provides additional information about the nuclear proteins that are potentially relevant for epigenetic marking, proper fertilization and embryo development.
PSMB7,   Protein ubiquitylation contributes to the regulation of many cellular processes including protein degradation, receptor internalization, and repair of DNA damage. We now present a comprehensive characterization of ubiquitin-conjugated and ubiquitin-associated proteins in human cells. The proteins were purified by immunoaffinity chromatography under denaturing or native conditions. They were then digested with trypsin, and the resulting peptides were analyzed by 2-D LC and MS/MS. A total of 670 distinct proteins were identified; 345 proteins (51%) were classified as Urp-D (ubiquitin-related proteome under the denaturing condition) and comprised ubiquitin-conjugated molecules, whereas 325 proteins (49%) were classified as Urp-N (ubiquitin-related proteome only under the native condition) and included molecules that associated with ubiquitylated proteins. The proportions of proteins in various functional categories differed substantially between Urp-D and Urp-N. Many ribosomal subunits were detected in the Urp-D group of proteins and several of these subunits were directly shown to be ubiquitylated by mass spectrometric analysis, suggesting that ubiquitylation might play an important role in the regulation and/or quality control of ribosomal proteins. Our results demonstrate the potential of proteomics analysis of protein ubiquitylation to provide important insight into the regulation of protein stability and other ubiquitin-related cellular functions.
PSMB7,   The National Institutes of Health Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC) Program is a multiinstitutional effort to identify and sequence a cDNA clone containing a complete ORF for each human and mouse gene. ESTs were generated from libraries enriched for full-length cDNAs and analyzed to identify candidate full-ORF clones, which then were sequenced to high accuracy. The MGC has currently sequenced and verified the full ORF for a nonredundant set of >9,000 human and >6,000 mouse genes. Candidate full-ORF clones for an additional 7,800 human and 3,500 mouse genes also have been identified. All MGC sequences and clones are available without restriction through public databases and clone distribution networks (see http:mgc.nci.nih.gov).
PSMB7,   Macromolecular complexes are essential to conserved biological processes, but their prevalence across animals is unclear. By combining extensive biochemical fractionation with quantitative mass spectrometry, here we directly examined the composition of soluble multiprotein complexes among diverse metazoan models. Using an integrative approach, we generated a draft conservation map consisting of more than one million putative high-confidence co-complex interactions for species with fully sequenced genomes that encompasses functional modules present broadly across all extant animals. Clustering reveals a spectrum of conservation, ranging from ancient eukaryotic assemblies that have probably served cellular housekeeping roles for at least one billion years, ancestral complexes that have accrued contemporary components, and rarer metazoan innovations linked to multicellularity. We validated these projections by independent co-fractionation experiments in evolutionarily distant species, affinity purification and functional analyses. The comprehensiveness, centrality and modularity of these reconstructed interactomes reflect their fundamental mechanistic importance and adaptive value to animal cell systems. 
PSMB7,   Human proteasomes consist of 14 major subunits which can be resolved by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Tryptic peptides from the subunits were sequenced. This allowed identification of all proteins in two-dimensional electrophoresis gels with proteasome subunits whose sequences are known from cDNA. The results also precisely define the specificity of a panel of subunit-specific monoclonal antibodies. A new proteasome subunit (Z) was discovered. In contrast, the putative subunit MECL-1 could not be detected in human placenta proteasomes.
PSMB7,   Interactomes are often measured using affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) or yeast two-hybrid approaches, but these methods do not provide stoichiometric or temporal information. We combine quantitative proteomics and size-exclusion chromatography to map 291 coeluting complexes. This method allows mapping of an interactome to the same depth and accuracy as AP-MS with less work and without overexpression or tagging. The use of triplex labeling enables monitoring of interactome rearrangements.
PSMB7,   A human gene with potent antiretroviral activity has recently been found to encode a new member of the family of cytidine deaminases, previously known to be involved in mRNA editing, immunoglobulin gene class switching, and immunoglobulin gene hypermutation. The enzyme attacks viral DNA as it is synthesized in infected cells and prevents the formation of functional proviruses. The Vif gene of HIV-1 blocks this host restriction and so allows virus replication.
PSMB7,   Gene variant intron C G-42A of protein Z is significantly associated with the occurrence of fetal loss. A previously unreported sporadic missense mutation within exon 8 is described in a patient with very low protein Z levels.
T,   Body fat distribution, particularly centralized obesity, is associated with metabolic risk above and beyond total adiposity. We performed genome-wide association of abdominal adipose depots quantified using computed tomography (CT) to uncover novel loci for body fat distribution among participants of European ancestry. Subcutaneous and visceral fat were quantified in 5,560 women and 4,997 men from 4 population-based studies. Genome-wide genotyping was performed using standard arrays and imputed to ~2.5 million Hapmap SNPs. Each study performed a genome-wide association analysis of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT), visceral adipose tissue (VAT), VAT adjusted for body mass index, and VAT/SAT ratio (a metric of the propensity to store fat viscerally as compared to subcutaneously) in the overall sample and in women and men separately. A weighted z-score meta-analysis was conducted. For the VAT/SAT ratio, our most significant p-value was rs11118316 at LYPLAL1 gene (p = 3.1 × 10E-09), previously identified in association with waist-hip ratio. For SAT, the most significant SNP was in the FTO gene (p = 5.9 × 10E-08). Given the known gender differences in body fat distribution, we performed sex-specific analyses. Our most significant finding was for VAT in women, rs1659258 near THNSL2 (p = 1.6 × 10-08), but not men (p = 0.75). Validation of this SNP in the GIANT consortium data demonstrated a similar sex-specific pattern, with observed significance in women (p = 0.006) but not men (p = 0.24) for BMI and waist circumference (p = 0.04 [women], p = 0.49 [men]). Finally, we interrogated our data for the 14 recently published loci for body fat distribution (measured by waist-hip ratio adjusted for BMI); associations were observed at 7 of these loci. In contrast, we observed associations at only 7/32 loci previously identified in association with BMI; the majority of overlap was observed with SAT. Genome-wide association for visceral and subcutaneous fat revealed a SNP for VAT in women. More refined phenotypes for body composition and fat distribution can detect new loci not previously uncovered in large-scale GWAS of anthropometric traits.
T,   Recent evidence suggests that the expression of brachyury is necessary for chordoma growth. However, the mechanism associated with brachyury-regulated cell growth is poorly understood. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF), a regulator of brachyury expression in normal tissue, may also play an important role in chordoma pathophysiology. Using a panel of chordoma cell lines, we explored the role of FGF signaling and brachyury in cell growth and survival. Western blots showed that all chordoma cell lines expressed fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2), FGFR3, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), whereas no cell lines expressed FGFR1 and FGFR4. Results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay indicated that chordoma cells produced FGF2. Neutralization of FGF2 inhibited MEK/ERK phosphorylation, decreased brachyury expression and induced apoptosis while reducing cell growth. Activation of the FGFR/MEK/ERK/brachyury pathway by FGF2-initiated phosphorylation of FGFR substrate 2 (FRS2)-α (Tyr196) prevented apoptosis while promoting cell growth and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Immunofluorescence staining showed that FGF2 promoted the translocation of phosphorylated ERK to the nucleus and increased brachyury expression. The selective inhibition of FGFR, MEK and ERK phosphorylation by PD173074, PD0325901 and PD184352, respectively, decreased brachyury expression, induced apoptosis, and inhibited cell growth and EMT. Moreover, knockdown of brachyury by small hairpin RNA reduced FGF2 secretion, inhibited FGFR/MEK/ERK phosphorylation and blocked the effects of FGF2 on cell growth, apoptosis and EMT. Those findings highlight that FGFR/MEK/ERK/brachyury pathway coordinately regulates chordoma cell growth and survival and may represent a novel chemotherapeutic target for chordoma.
T,   Hemangioblastoma (HBL) accounts for up to 2.5% of all intracranial tumors. It may occur as a sporadic entity or as a part of Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Patients with Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome are also at an increased risk of developing clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC). The distinction of HBL from CCRCC metastatic to the central nervous system (CNS) or from other histologic mimics can be challenging at times when based solely on hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections. In the present study we evaluated the potential use of the immunohistochemical evaluation of brachyury protein in the differential diagnosis of these lesions. Archival tissues from 22 HBLs, 16 primary CCRCCs, 8 CCRCCs metastatic to the CNS, and 4 angiomatous and 4 clear cell meningiomas were retrieved from our surgical pathology files and submitted to the immunohistochemical procedures against brachyury. Cases showing nuclear and/or cytoplasmic staining were considered to be positive for brachyury. Positive cytoplasmic staining was evidenced in the stromal cells of 20 of the 22 HBLs. In most cases, >50% of the neoplastic cells were labeled, with strong or moderate intensity of staining. No nuclear or cytoplasmic staining for brachyury was observed in any of the primary renal or metastatic CCRCCs, nor in either of the meningioma types. Thus, brachyury cytoplasmic staining was demonstrated to be highly specific for HBL (specificity, 100%) and represented a sensible (sensitivity, 91%) method, with high positive (100%) and negative (89%) predictive values and high diagnostic accuracy (95%) in the differential diagnosis between HBL and CCRCC metastatic to the CNS or meningioma. On the basis of our findings we propose the use of brachyury as an additional helpful immunohistochemical marker to resolve the differential diagnosis of HBL toward histologic mimics.
T,   This study aimed to identify an immunohistochemical panel to aid in the differential diagnosis for tumors with clear cell morphology. Twenty-five clear cell renal cell carcinomas (CCRCCs), 19 clear cell ovarian carcinoma (CCOCs), 20 cases of adrenal cortical carcinomas(ACCs), and 10 chordomas were stained for renal cell carcinoma marker (RCC Ma), Pax8, brachyury, and steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1). The extent of stains was scored as focal (<25%), nonfocal (25%-50%), and diffuse (>50%). The intensity was scored as weak, moderate, and strong. Twenty-two CCRCCs were positive for RCC Ma (88%) and Pax8 (88%), respectively. The RCC Ma cytoplasmic staining was largely diffuse (76%) and strong (76%). The nuclear Pax8 staining was usually diffuse (76%) and moderate (64%) to strong (8%). All of CCRCCs were negative for brachyury and SF-1. All of 19 CCOCs were positive for Pax8 nuclear staining. The staining was diffuse, moderate (21%) to strong (79%). All of CCOCs were negative for RCC Ma, brachyury, and SF-1. All of 20 ACCs were positive for SF-1 nuclear staining. The staining was largely diffuse (95%), moderate (55%) to strong (15%). All of ACC were negative for RCC Ma, Pax8, and brachyury. All of 10 chordomas were positive for brachyury nuclear staining. The staining was diffuse and strong. All of chordomas were negative for RCC Ma, Pax8, and SF-1. In summary, the panel of RCC Ma, Pax8, brachyury, and SF-1 is useful in the differential diagnosis of tumors with clear morphology.
T,   Axial chordoma represents approximately 1% of malignant bone tumors. This tumor expresses cytokeratins, specifically cytokeratin 19, and commonly S100. More recently brachyury, a transcription factor important in mesodermal differentiation, including notochord development, has been detected by immunohistochemistry in axial chordomas and hemangioblastomas but not chondrosarcomas or other neoplasms. In this report, we describe 10 cases (6 men, 4 women: age 18 to 68 y; mean 44.6) of extra-axial tumors, 8 in bone and 2 in soft tissue, with morphologic and immunohistochemical features identical to those of axial chordoma. Imaging excluded metastases from axial chordoma. Three tumors occurred in the tibia, the others in the rib, metatarsal, ulna, femur, pubis: 2 intracortical, 6 intramedullary. Both soft tissue brachyury-positive tumors, one involving the thumb the other the wrist, were sited in the juxta-articular region. Seven of the tumors were widely excised and these patients are disease-free but of the 3 tumors that recurred, 1 was curetted, 1 was marginally excised, and 1 had a pathologic fracture on presentation. Metastases have not occurred in any of the patients. We also confirm the expression of brachyury in hemangioblastomas, and for the first time demonstrates its expression in spermatogonia and testicular germ cell tumors by immunohistochemistry. Brachyury was not detected in a wide range of tumors including carcinomas, lymphomas, and sarcomas. In conclusion, we describe the first series of extra-axial skeletal chordomas bringing the total number of such cases reported in the literature to 11, and present the first report of 2 soft tissue chordomas as defined by brachyury expression.
T,   The development of the hematopoietic system involves multiple cellular steps beginning with the formation of the mesoderm from the primitive streak, followed by emergence of precursor populations that become committed to either the endothelial or hematopoietic lineages. A number of growth factors such as activins and fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are known to regulate the early specification of hematopoietic fated mesoderm, notably in amphibians. However, the potential roles of these factors in the development of mesoderm and subsequent hematopoiesis in the human have yet to be delineated. Defining the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which combinations of mesoderm-inducing factors regulate this stepwise process in human cells in vitro is central to effectively directing human embryonic stem cell (hESC) hematopoietic differentiation. Herein, using hESC-derived embryoid bodies (EBs), we show that Activin A, but not basic FGF/FGF2 (bFGF), promotes hematopoietic fated mesodermal specification from pluripotent human cells. The effect of Activin A treatment relies on the presence of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) and both of the hematopoietic cytokines stem cell factor and fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor-3 ligand, and is the consequence of 2 separate mechanisms occurring at 2 different stages of human EB development from mesoderm to blood. While Activin A promotes the induction of mesoderm, as indicated by the upregulation of Brachyury expression, which represents the mesodermal precursor required for hematopoietic development, it also contributes to the expansion of cells already committed to a hematopoietic fate. As hematopoietic development requires the transition through a Brachyury+ intermediate, we demonstrate that hematopoiesis in hESCs is impaired by the downregulation of Brachyury, but is unaffected by its overexpression. These results demonstrate, for the first time, the functional significance of Brachyury in the developmental program of hematopoietic differentiation from hESCs and provide an in-depth understanding of the molecular cues that orchestrate stepwise development of hematopoiesis in a human system.
T,   Brachyury is recognized as a specific marker for notochord-derived tissues and neoplasms, and has become a defining immunohistochemical feature of chordoma. The main differential diagnostic consideration for chordoma is chondrosarcoma, which is known to lack brachyury expression. However, within the spectrum of genitourinary neoplasia, metastatic germ cell tumors and clear cell renal cell carcinoma may also be close morphological mimics of chordoma, particularly given the increasing prevalence of small tissue samples from image-guided biopsies. Although immunoreactivity for brachyury has been reported in a few germ cell tumors, a thorough characterization of staining by specific subtype has not been performed in a large series. Additionally, brachyury expression in clear cell renal cell carcinoma has not been well studied. In this study, immunohistochemical expression with the brachyury antibody was evaluated in 111 germ cell tumors, 30 non-neoplastic and neoplastic (non-germ cell) testicular tissues, and 184 metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas using tissue microarray technology. In addition, immunoreactivity for PAX-8 and SALL-4 was evaluated in 12 chordomas on whole section. No nuclear brachyury expression was identified in any of the 101 germ cell tumors within the tissue microarray (including choriocarcinoma (1), embryonal carcinoma (20), intratubular germ cell neoplasia unclassified (2), seminoma (64), spermatocytic seminoma (1), teratoma (5) and yolk sac tumor (8)), in any of the 30 non-neoplastic and neoplastic (non-germ cell) testicular tissues, or in any of the 10 whole-section seminomas. All 184 metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas were also non-reactive for brachyury. All 12 chordomas showed strong nuclear immunoreactivity for brachyury, but no expression of SALL-4. In all, 1 of 12 chordoma cases showed patchy, 1+ nuclear immunoreactivity for PAX-8. This study confirms the specificity of brachyury for chordoma in the differential diagnostic distinction from the potential genitourinary mimics, germ cell tumors and metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
T,   The distinction between chondrosarcoma and chordoma of the skull base/head and neck is prognostically important; however, both have sufficient morphologic overlap to make delineation difficult. As a result of gene expression studies, additional candidate markers have been proposed to help in separating those entities. We sought to evaluate the performance of new markers: brachyury, SOX-9, and podoplanin alongside the more traditional markers glial fibrillary acid protein, carcinoembryonic antigen, CD24, and epithelial membrane antigen. Paraffin blocks from 103 skull base/head and neck chondroid tumors from 70 patients were retrieved (1969-2007). Diagnoses were made based on morphology and/or whole-section immunohistochemistry for cytokeratin and S100 protein yielding 79 chordomas (comprising 45 chondroid chordomas and 34 conventional chordomas), and 24 chondrosarcomas. A tissue microarray containing 0.6 mm cores of each tumor in triplicate was constructed using a manual array (MTA-1; Beecher Instruments). For visualization of staining, the ImmPRESS detection system (Vector Laboratories) with 2-diaminobenzidine substrate was used. Sensitivities and specificities were calculated for each marker. Core loss from the microarray ranged from 25 to 29% yielding 66-78 viable cases per stain. The classic marker, cytokeratin, still has the best performance characteristics. When combined with brachyury, accuracy improves slightly (sensitivity and specificity for detection of chordoma 98 and 100%, respectively). Positivity for both epithelial membrane antigen and AE1/AE3 had a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 100% for detecting chordoma in this study. SOX-9 is apparently common to both notochordal and cartilaginous differentiation, and is not useful in the chordoma-chondrosarcoma differential diagnosis. Glial fibrillary acid protein, carcinoembryonic antigen, CD24, and epithelial membrane antigen did not outperform other markers, and are less useful in the diagnosis of chordoma vs chondrosarcoma. Podoplanin still remains the only positive marker for chondrosarcoma, though its accuracy is less than previously reported.
T,   We describe a genetic analysis of the human homologue (T) of the mouse T (Brachyury) gene; human T was recently cloned in our laboratory. The protein product of the T gene is a transcription factor crucial in vertebrates for the formation of normal mesoderm. T mutant Brachyury mice die in midgestation with severe defects in posterior mesodermal tissues; heterozygous mice are viable but have posterior axial malformations. In addition to its importance in development, T has intrigued geneticists because of its association with the mouse t-haplotype; this haplotype is a variant form of the t-complex and is characterized by transmission ratio distortion, male sterility and recombination suppression. We have identified a common polymorphism of human T by single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and used this in mapping studies and to re-investigate the idea that human T is involved in susceptibility to the multifactorial, neural tube defect, spina bifida. Our mapping data show that human T maps to 6q27 and lies between two other genes of the t-complex, TCP1 and TCP10. These data add to the evidence that in man the genes of the t-complex are split into two main locations on the short and long arms of chromosome 6. We have used an allele association test which is independent of mode of inheritance and penetrance to analyse data from the spina bifida families. Using this test we find evidence for a significant (p = 0.02) association between transmission of the TIVS7-2 allele of the human T gene and spina bifida.
T,   No major susceptibility genes for sporadically occurring congenital vertebral malformations (CVM) in humans have been identified to date. Body patterning genes whose mutants cause axial skeletal anomalies in mice are candidates for human CVM susceptibility. T (also known as Brachyury) and TBX6 are critical genes needed to establish mesodermal identity. We hypothesized that mutations in T and/or TBX6 contribute to the pathogenesis of human CVMs. The complete T and TBX6 coding regions, splice junctions, and proximal 500 bp of the promoters were sequenced in 50 phenotyped patients with CVM. Three unrelated patients with sacral agenesis, Klippel-Feil syndrome, and multiple cervical and thoracic vertebral malformations were heterozygous for a c.1013C>T substitution, resulting in a predicted Ala338Val missense alteration in exon 8. A clinically unaffected parent of each patient also harbored the substitution, but the variant did not occur in an ethnically diverse, 443-person reference population. The c.1013C>T variant is significantly associated with CVM (p < 0.001). Alanine 338 shows moderate conservation across species, and valine at this position has not been reported in any species. A fourth patient harbored a c.908-8C>T variant in intron 7. This previously unreported variant was tested in 347 normal control subjects, and 11 heterozygotes and 2 T/T individuals were found. No TBX6 variants were identified. We infer that the c.1013C>T substitution is pathogenic and represents the first report of an association between a missense mutation in the T gene and the occurrence of sporadic CVMs in humans. It is uncertain whether the splice junction variant increases CVM risk. TBX6 mutations do not seem to be associated with CVM. We hypothesize that epistatic interactions between T and other developmental genes and the environment modulate the phenotypic consequences of T variants.
T,   To date, most studies aimed at discovering genetic factors influencing treatment response in asthma have focused on biologic candidate genes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) can rapidly identify novel pharmacogenetic loci.investigate if GWAS can identify novel pharmacogenetic loci in asthma.ng phenotypic and GWAS genotype data available through the NHLBI-funded Single-nucleotide polymorphism Health association-Asthma Resource Project, we analyzed differences in FEV(1) in response to inhaled corticosteroids in 418 white subjects with asthma. Of the 444,088 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) analyzed, the lowest 50 SNPs by P value were genotyped in an independent clinical trial population of 407 subjects with asthma. lowest P value for the GWAS analysis was 2.09 × 10(-6). Of the 47 SNPs successfully genotyped in the replication population, three were associated under the same genetic model in the same direction, including two of the top four SNPs ranked by P value. Combined P values for these SNPs were 1.06 × 10(-5) for rs3127412 and 6.13 × 10(-6) for rs6456042. Although these two were not located within a gene, they were tightly correlated with three variants mapping to potentially functional regions within the T gene. After genotyping, each T gene variant was also associated with lung function response to inhaled corticosteroids in each of the trials associated with rs3127412 and rs6456042 in the initial GWAS analysis. On average, there was a twofold to threefold difference in FEV(1) response for those subjects homozygous for the wild-type versus mutant alleles for each T gene SNP.ome-wide association has identified the T gene as a novel pharmacogenetic locus for inhaled corticosteroid response in asthma.
T,   The Generalist Genes Hypothesis is based upon quantitative genetic findings which indicate that many of the same genes influence diverse cognitive abilities and disabilities across age. In a recent genome-wide association study of mathematical ability in 10-year-old children, 43 SNP associations were nominated from scans of pooled DNA, 10 of which were validated in an individually genotyped sample. The 4927 children in this genotyped sample have also been studied at 7, 9 and 12 years of age on measures of mathematical ability, as well as on other cognitive and learning abilities.ng these data we have explored the Generalist Genes Hypothesis by assessing the association of the available measures of ability at age 10 and other ages with two composite 'SNP-set' scores, formed from the full set of 43 nominated SNPs and the sub-set of 10 SNPs that were previously found to be associated with mathematical ability at age 10. Both SNP sets yielded significant associations with mathematical ability at ages 7, 9 and 12, as well as with reading and general cognitive ability at age 10.hough effect sizes are small, our results correspond with those of quantitative genetic research in supporting the Generalist Genes Hypothesis. SNP sets identified on the basis of their associations with mathematical ability at age 10 show associations with mathematical ability at earlier and later ages and show associations of similar magnitude with reading and general cognitive ability. With small effect sizes expected in such complex traits, future studies may be able to capitalise on power by searching for 'generalist genes' using longitudinal and multivariate approaches.
T,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has been implicated as an important process in tumor cell invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance. The transcription factor brachyury has recently been described as a driver of EMT of human carcinoma cells.chyury mRNA and protein expression was analyzed in human breast carcinomas and benign tissues. The role of brachyury in breast tumor prognosis and drug resistance and the ability of brachyury-specific T cells to lyse human breast carcinoma cells were also evaluated. Kaplan-Meier analyses were used to evaluate the association between brachyury expression and survival. All statistical tests were two-sided. level of brachyury expression in breast cancer cells was positively associated with their ability to invade the extracellular matrix, efficiently form mammospheres in vitro, and resist the cytotoxic effect of docetaxel. A comparison of survival among breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen in the adjuvant setting who had tumors with high vs low brachyury mRNA expression demonstrated that high expression of brachyury is associated as an independent variable with higher risk of recurrence (hazard ratio [HR] = 7.5; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.4 to 23.5; P = 5.14×10(-4)) and distant metastasis (HR = 15.2; 95% CI = 3.5 to 66.3; P = 3.01×10(-4)). We also demonstrated that brachyury-specific T cells can lyse human breast carcinoma cells. studies reported here provide the rationale for the use of a vaccine targeting brachyury for the therapy of human breast cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination therapies.
T,   Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) induced by TGF-β1 is one of well-recognized factors contributing to renal fibrosis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of EMT are not fully understood. Brachyury, an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor, was recently identified as an important factor promoting EMT in human carcinoma cell lines. There is no evidence that Brachyury is involved in renal tubular EMT. results demonstrated that Brachyury was prominently induced in TGF-β1-treated human proximal tubular epithelial (HK-2) cells and that this induction was accompanied by changes characteristic of EMT. Blockage of Brachyury expression by short interfering RNA (siRNA) in HK-2 cells effectively reversed the TGF-β1-induced EMT phenotype. Brachyury induction repressed E-cadherin transcription; the E-cadherin promoter contains a Brachyury binding site, and decreased expression of E-cadherin occurred in Brachyury-overexpressing cells when they were transfected with reporter constructs using the promoter. This effect was partially mediated by Slug and Snail, as knockdown of Snail and Slug by siRNA effectively reversed Brachyury-mediated EMT and partially restored E-cadherin expression. The expression of Brachyury also presented in a rat model of obstructive nephropathy and in tubulointerstitial fibrosis tissues of IgA nephropathy, suggesting that it may have a role in EMT and renal fibrosis in vivo. results demonstrate for the first time that Brachyury plays an important role in regulating TGF-β1-mediated renal EMT and could be an attractive target for progression of renal disease therapies.
T,   Successful therapy of patients with prostate cancer is highly dependent on reliable diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. Brachyury is considered a negative prognostic factor in colon and lung cancer; however, there are no reports on Brachyury's expression in prostate cancer.this study, we aimed to assess the impact of Brachyury expression in prostate tumorigenesis using a large series of human prostate samples comprising benign tissue, prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) lesions, localized tumor, and metastatic tissues. The results obtained were compared with what can be inferred from the Oncomine database. In addition, multiple in vitro models of prostate cancer were used to dissect the biologic role of Brachyury in prostate cancer progression.found that Brachyury is significantly overexpressed in prostate cancer and metastatic tumors when compared with normal tissues, both at protein and at mRNA levels. Brachyury expression in the cytoplasm correlates with highly aggressive tumors, whereas the presence of Brachyury in the nucleus is correlated with tumor invasion. We found that Brachyury-positive cells present higher viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion rates than Brachyury-negative cells. Microarray analysis further showed that genes co-expressed with Brachyury are clustered in oncogenic-related pathways, namely cell motility, cell-cycle regulation, and cell metabolism.lectively, the present study suggests that Brachyury plays an important role in prostate cancer aggressiveness and points, for the first time, to Brachyury as a significant predictor of poor prostate cancer prognosis. Our work paves the way for future studies assessing Brachyury as a possible prostate cancer therapeutic target.
T,   Chordoma is a neoplasm of notochordal differentiation that typically occurs in the axial skeleton. Accurate diagnosis is therapeutically important but can be challenging, especially in fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and core needle biopsy (CNB). Immunohistochemistry for the transcription factor brachyury (T) has recently proven diagnostically useful in whole-tissue sections. Our aim was to compare brachyury performance with conventional markers (S-100, EMA, keratin) and to evaluate its utility in distinguishing chordoma from cytomorphologic mimics. Brachyury immunohistochemistry was performed on chordoma (8 FNA, 12 CNB), chondrosarcoma (10 FNA), and metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma (12 FNA). Immunohistochemistry performed at the time of diagnosis was also reviewed. Brachyury was positive in 17 (85%) cases of chordoma and typically showed moderate-to-strong nuclear staining. Of five sets of concurrent FNA and CNB, four pairs were positive for brachyury in both samples and one pair was positive for brachyury in the CNB and negative in the cell block. S-100, EMA, and keratin stains were available for 13 chordomas: 9 (69%) cases (including the 3 negative for brachyury) were positive for S-100 and keratin or EMA; 4 cases were keratin positive but S-100 negative. No nuclear brachyury staining was seen in chondrosarcoma or adenocarcinoma, though two adenocarcinomas showed cytoplasmic staining. Brachyury separates chordoma from cytomorphologic mimics with high sensitivity and specificity in small biopsies. As a single test, brachyury has higher sensitivity than a combined panel of S-100 and epithelial markers. When added to the conventional panel, brachyury increases sensitivity to 100% without sacrificing specificity.
T,   The T-box transcription factor Brachyury, a molecule frequently detected in human cancers but seldom found in normal adult tissue, has recently been characterized as a driver of the epithelial-to-mesenchymal switch of human carcinomas. In the current investigation, we present data demonstrating that in two different human lung carcinoma models expression of Brachyury strongly correlates with increased in vitro resistance to cytotoxic therapies, such as chemotherapy and radiation. We also demonstrate that chemotherapy treatment in vitro selects for tumor cells with high levels of Brachyury and that the degree of resistance to therapy correlates with the level of Brachyury expression. In vitro and in vivo, human lung carcinoma cells with higher levels of Brachyury divide at slower rates than those with lower levels of Brachyury, a phenomenon associated with marked downregulation of cyclin D1, phosphorylated Rb and CDKN1A (p21). Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays revealed that Brachyury binds to a half T-box consensus site located within the promoter region of the p21 gene, indicating a potential mechanism for the observed therapeutic resistance associated with Brachyury expression. Finally, we demonstrate that in vivo treatment of tumor xenografts with chemotherapy results in the selective growth of resistant tumors characterized by high levels of Brachyury expression. Altogether, these results suggest that Brachyury expression may attenuate cell cycle progression, enabling tumor cells to become less susceptible to chemotherapy and radiation in human carcinomas. 
T,   Chordoma is a rare bone cancer that is believed to originate from notochordal remnants. We previously identified germline T duplication as a major susceptibility mechanism in several chordoma families. Recently, a common genetic variant in T (rs2305089) was significantly associated with the risk of sporadic chordoma. We sequenced all T exons in 24 familial cases and 54 unaffected family members from eight chordoma families (three with T duplications), 103 sporadic cases, and 160 unrelated controls. We also measured T copy number variation in all sporadic cases. We confirmed the association between the previously reported variant rs2305089 and risk of familial [odds ratio (OR) = 2.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.93, 7.25, P = 0.067] and sporadic chordoma (OR = 2.85, 95% CI = 1.89, 4.29, P < 0.0001). We also identified a second common variant, rs1056048, that was strongly associated with chordoma in families (OR = 4.14, 95% CI = 1.43, 11.92, P = 0.0086). Among sporadic cases, another common variant (rs3816300) was significantly associated with risk when jointly analyzed with rs2305089. The association with rs3816300 was significantly stronger in cases with early age onset. In addition, we identified three rare variants that were only observed among sporadic chordoma cases, all of which have potential functional relevance based on in silico predictions. Finally, we did not observe T duplication in any sporadic chordoma case. Our findings further highlight the importance of the T gene in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic chordoma and suggest a complex susceptibility related to T.
T,   The continued turn over of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) while maintaining an undifferentiated state is dependent on the regulation of the cell cycle. Here we asked the question if a single cell cycle gene could regulate the self-renewal or pluripotency properties of hESC. We identified that the protein expression of the p27(Kip)¹ cell cycle inhibitor is low in hESC cells and increased with differentiation. By adopting a gain and loss of function strategy we forced or reduced its expression in undifferentiating conditions to define its functional role in self-renewal and pluripotency. Using undifferentiation conditions, overexpression of p27(Kip)¹ in hESC lead to a G₁phase arrest with an enlarged and flattened hESC morphology and consequent loss of self-renewal ability. Loss of p27(Kip)¹ caused an elongated/scatter cell-like phenotype involving up-regulation of Brachyury and Twist gene expression. We demonstrate the novel finding that p27(Kip)¹ protein occupies the Twist1 gene promoter and manipulation of p27(Kip)¹ by gain and loss of function is associated with Twist gene expression changes. These results define p27(Kip)¹ expression levels as critical for self-renewal and pluripotency in hESC and suggest a role for p27(Kip)¹ in controlling an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in hESC.
T,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a process associated with the metastasis of solid tumors as well as with the acquisition of resistance to standard anticancer modalities. A major initiator of EMT in carcinoma cells is TGF-β, which has been shown to induce the expression of several transcription factors ultimately responsible for initiating and maintaining the EMT program. We have previously identified Brachyury, a T-box transcription factor, as an inducer of mesenchymal features in human carcinoma cells. In this study, a potential link between Brachyury and TGF-β signaling has been investigated. The results show for the first time that Brachyury expression is enhanced during TGF-β1-induced EMT in various human cancer cell lines, and that a positive feedback loop is established between Brachyury and TGF-β1 in mesenchymal-like tumor cells. In this context, Brachyury overexpression is shown to promote upregulation of TGF-β1 at the mRNA and protein levels, an effect mediated by activation of the TGF-β1 promoter in the presence of high levels of Brachyury. Furthermore, inhibition of TGF-β1 signaling by a small-molecule inhibitor of TGF-β receptor type I decreases Brachyury expression, induces a mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition, and renders cancer cells more susceptible to chemotherapy. This study thus has implications for the future development of clinical trials using TGF-β inhibitors in combination with other anticancer agents.
T,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is emerging as a critical factor for the progression and metastasis of carcinomas, as well as drug resistance. The T-box transcription factor Brachyury has been recently characterized as a driver of EMT in human carcinoma cells. The purpose of this study was to characterize Brachyury as a potential target for lung cancer therapy. expression of Brachyury was evaluated by PCR and by immunohistochemistry in human lung tumors and adult normal tissues. Brachyury gene copy number and promoter methylation status were analyzed in tumor tissues with various levels of Brachyury expression. Lung carcinoma cells' susceptibility to T-cell lysis and EGF receptor (EGFR) kinase inhibition were also evaluated relative to the levels of Brachyury. results showed Brachyury protein expression in 41% of primary lung carcinomas, including 48% of adenocarcinomas and 25% of squamous cell carcinomas. With the exception of normal testis and some thyroid tissues, the majority of normal tissues evaluated in this study were negative for the expression of Brachyury protein. Brachyury-specific T cells could lyse Brachyury-positive tumors and the level of Brachyury corresponded to resistance of tumor cells to EGFR kinase inhibition.hypothesize that the elimination of Brachyury-positive tumor cells may be able to prevent and/or diminish tumor dissemination and the establishment of metastases. The ability of Brachyury-specific T-cell lines to lyse Brachyury-positive tumor cells, in vitro, supports the development of Brachyury-based immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of lung cancer.
T,   The murine tumor suppressor p19(ARF) (p14(ARF) in humans) is thought to fulfill an important protective role in preventing primary cells from oncogenic transformation via its action in the p53 pathway. Several disease-implicated regulators of p19(ARF) are known to date, among which are the T-box genes TBX2, which resides on an amplicon in primary breast tumors, and TBX3, which is mutated in the human developmental disorder Ulnar-Mammary syndrome. Here we identify a variant T-site, matching 13 of 20 nucleotides of a consensus T-site, as the essential TBX2/TBX3-binding element in the human p14(ARF) promoter. Mutant analysis indicates that both the consensus T-box and a C-terminal conserved repression domain are essential for p14(ARF) repression. Whereas the core nucleotides required for interaction of the archetypal T-box protein Brachyury with a consensus T-site are conserved in the variant site, additional flanking nucleotides contribute to the specificity of TBX2 binding. This is illustrated by the inability of TBX1A or Xbra to activate via the variant p14(ARF) T-site. Importantly, this suggests a hitherto unsuspected level of specificity associated with T-box factors and corresponding recognition sites in regulating their target genes in vivo.
T,   The T gene (brachyury gene) is the founding member of the T-box family of transcription factors and is vital for the formation and differentiation of the mesoderm and the axial development of all vertebrates.report here on four patients from three consanguineous families exhibiting sacral agenesis, a persistent notochordal canal and abnormal ossification of the vertebral bodies, and the identification and characterisation of their underlying genetic defect. Given the consanguineous nature and the similarity of the phenotypes between the three families, we performed homozygosity mapping and identified a common 4.1 Mb homozygous region on chromosome 6q27, containing T, brachyury homologue (mouse) or T. Sequencing of T in the affected individuals led to the identification of a homozygous missense mutation, p.H171R, in the highly conserved T-box. The homozygous mutation results in diminished DNA binding, increased cell growth, and interferes with the normal expression of genes involved in ossification, notochord maintenance and axial mesoderm development.have identified a shared homozygous mutation in three families in T and linked it to a novel syndrome consisting of sacral agenesis, a persistent notochordal canal and abnormal ossification of the vertebral bodies. We suggest that screening for the ossification of the vertebrae is warranted in patients with sacral agenesis to evaluate the possible causal involvement of T.
T,   BMP is thought to induce hESC differentiation toward multiple lineages including mesoderm and trophoblast. The BMP-induced trophoblast phenotype is a long-standing paradox in stem cell biology. Here we readdressed BMP function in hESCs and mouse epiblast-derived cells. We found that BMP4 cooperates with FGF2 (via ERK) to induce mesoderm and to inhibit endoderm differentiation. These conditions induced cells with high levels of BRACHYURY (BRA) that coexpressed CDX2. BRA was necessary for and preceded CDX2 expression; both genes were essential for expression not only of mesodermal genes but also of trophoblast-associated genes. Maximal expression of the latter was seen in the absence of FGF but these cells coexpressed mesodermal genes and moreover they differed in cell surface and epigenetic properties from placental trophoblast. We conclude that BMP induces human and mouse pluripotent stem cells primarily to form mesoderm, rather than trophoblast, acting through BRA and CDX2.
T,   A variety of analyses, including fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), quantitative PCR (qPCR) and array CGH (aCGH), have been performed on a series of chordomas from 181 patients. Twelve of 181 (7%) tumours displayed amplification of the T locus and an additional two cases showed focal amplification; 70/181 (39%) tumours were polysomic for chromosome 6, and 8/181 (4.5%) primary tumours showed a minor allelic gain of T as assessed by FISH. No germline alteration of the T locus was identified in non-neoplastic tissue from 40 patients. Copy number gain of T was seen in a similar percentage of sacrococcygeal, mobile spine and base of skull tumours. Knockdown of T in the cell line, U-CH1, which showed polysomy of chromosome 6 involving 6q27, resulted in a marked decrease in cell proliferation and morphological features consistent with a senescence-like phenotype. The U-CH1 cell line was validated as representing chordoma by the generation of xenografts, which showed typical chordoma morphology and immunohistochemistry in the NOD/SCID/interleukin 2 receptor [IL2r]gammanull mouse model. In conclusion, chromosomal aberrations resulting in gain of the T locus are common in sporadic chordomas and expression of this gene is critical for proliferation of chordoma cells in vitro.
T,   Chordoma is a rare malignant tumour of bone, the molecular marker of which is the expression of the transcription factor, brachyury. Having recently demonstrated that silencing brachyury induces growth arrest in a chordoma cell line, we now seek to identify its downstream target genes. Here we use an integrated functional genomics approach involving shRNA-mediated brachyury knockdown, gene expression microarray, ChIP-seq experiments, and bioinformatics analysis to achieve this goal. We confirm that the T-box binding motif of human brachyury is identical to that found in mouse, Xenopus, and zebrafish development, and that brachyury acts primarily as an activator of transcription. Using human chordoma samples for validation purposes, we show that brachyury binds 99 direct targets and indirectly influences the expression of 64 other genes, thereby acting as a master regulator of an elaborate oncogenic transcriptional network encompassing diverse signalling pathways including components of the cell cycle, and extracellular matrix components. Given the wide repertoire of its active binding and the relative specific localization of brachyury to the tumour cells, we propose that an RNA interference-based gene therapy approach is a plausible therapeutic avenue worthy of investigation.
T,   The clinical significance of Brachyury expression and its relationship to epithelial-mesenchymal transition in primary lung carcinoma is unclear.ression of Brachyury mRNA was investigated in 104 surgically resected primary lung carcinoma tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis of Brachyury transcription factor, Slug, E-cadherin, IL-8, N-cadherin, and Ki67 was performed in 67 of 104 cases, and their expression was correlated to prognoses and clinicopathological factors.chyury mRNA expression in primary lung carcinoma tissues was a significant predictor of poor prognosis for 5-year disease-free survival and overall survival rates and was significantly correlated to vascular invasion, lymphatic permeation, histological grade, pathologic T stage, and pathologic N stage (P < 0.05). Brachyury mRNA expression was significantly inversely correlated to E-cadherin expression (P = 0.0252) and positively correlated to IL-8 protein (P = 0.0241) and to Slug protein (P = 0.0243) in adenocarcinoma tissues.ositive association between Brachyury and Slug and IL-8, and a negative association with E-cadherin may lead to invasiveness and metastasis in primary lung carcinoma. Brachyury mRNA expression is a significant predictor of poor prognosis in primary lung carcinoma.
T,   Our recent work demonstrated that common cardiovascular progenitor cells are characterized and induced by the expression of the transcription factor mesoderm posterior1 (MesP1) in vertebrate embryos and murine embryonic stem cells. As the proliferative potential of stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes is limited, it is crucial to understand how MesP1 expression is mediated in order to achieve reasonable and reliable yields for novel stem cell-based therapeutic options. As potential upstream regulators of MesP1, we therefore analysed Eomes and Brachyury(T), which had been controversially discussed as being crucial for cardiovasculogenic lineage formation.d-type and transgenic murine embryonic stem cell lines, mRNA analyses, embryoid body formation, and cell sorting revealed that the MesP1 positive population emerges from the Brachyury(T) positive fraction. In situ hybridizations using wild-type mouse embryos confirmed that Brachyury(T) colocalises with MesP1 in vivo. Likewise, shRNA-based loss of Brachyury(T) causes a dramatic decrease in MesP1 expression accompanied by reduced cardiac markers in differentiating embryonic stem cells, which is reflected in vivo via in situ hybridizations using Brachyury(T) knock-out embryos where MesP1 mRNA is greatly abolished. We finally defined a 3.4 kb proximal MesP1-promoter fragment which is directly bound and activated by Brachyury(T) via a T responsive element as shown via bandshift, chromatin immuneprecipitation, and reporter assays. work contributes to the understanding of the earliest cardiovasculogenic events and may become an important prerequisite for cell therapy, tissue engineering, and pharmacological testing in the culture dish using pluripotent stem cell-derived as well as directly reprogrammed cardiovascular cell types.
T,   Cellular differentiation and lineage commitment are considered to be robust and irreversible processes during development. Recent work has shown that mouse and human fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state with a combination of four transcription factors. We hypothesized that combinatorial expression of chondrocyte-specific transcription factors could directly convert human placental cells into chondrocytes. Starting from a pool of candidate genes, we identified a combination of only five genes (5F pool)-BCL6, T (also called BRACHYURY), c-MYC, MITF, and BAF60C (also called SMARCD3)-that rapidly and efficiently convert postnatal human chorion and decidual cells into chondrocytes. The cells generated expressed multiple cartilage-specific genes, such as Collagen type II α1, LINK PROTEIN-1, and AGGRECAN, and exhibited characteristics of cartilage both in vivo and in vitro. Expression of the endogenous genes for T and MITF was initiated, implying that the cell conversion is due to not only the forced expression of the transgenes, but also to cellular reprogramming by the transgenes. This direct conversion system from noncartilage tissue to cartilaginous tissue is a substantial advance toward understanding cartilage development, cell-based therapy, and oncogenesis of chondrocytes.
T,   Based on studies in animals and humans, PAX3 and T (brachyury) are candidate genes for spina bifida. However, neither gene has been definitively identified as a risk factor for this condition.ger sequencing was used to identify variants in all PAX3 and T exons and promoter regions in 114 spina bifida cases. For known variants, allele frequencies in cases were compared with those from public databases using unadjusted odds ratios. Novel variants were genotyped in parents and assessed for predicted functional impact.identified common variants in PAX3 (n = 2) and T (n = 3) for which the allele frequencies in cases were significantly different from those reported in at least one public database. We also identified novel variants in both PAX3 (n = 11) and T (n = 1) in spina bifida cases. Several of the novel PAX3 variants are predicted to be highly conserved and/or impact gene function or expression.se studies provide some evidence that common variants of PAX3 and T are associated with spina bifida. Rare and novel variants in these genes were also identified in affected individuals. However, additional studies will be required to determine whether these variants influence the risk of spina bifida.
T,   Chordoma is a rare, notochordal tumor with a characteristic histomorphology and immunohistochemical profile. At times, it presents a diagnostic challenge, especially in small biopsies. Brachyury, a nuclear transcription factor, is a recently described immunohistochemical marker for diagnosing chordomas.study the sensitivity and specificity of brachyury in diagnosing chordomas by comparing its expression in axial chordomas with nonchordomatous tumors.ty-one axial chordomas, accessioned during a 10-year period, and 58 nonchordomatous tumors were subjected to brachyury staining by immunohistochemistry. 51 chordomas occurred in 36 men and 15 women. Sitewise, 34 cases (66.7%) occurred in the sacrococcyx, 9 (17.6%) in the spine, and 8 (15.7%) in the skull base. Histologically, 34 cases (66.7%) were classical chordomas, 13 cases (25.5%) had a dominant chondroid component, and 2 cases each (3.9%) were chondroid chordomas and dedifferentiated chordomas, respectively. Brachyury staining was positive in 46 of the 51 chordomas (90.2%) and negative in all 58 nonchordomatous tumors. The dedifferentiated area in 2 chordomas was negative for brachyury staining. Fourteen of 15 chordomas with chondroid component showed positive brachyury staining. Immunohistochemical expression of other markers, included cytokeratin (positive in 23 of 23 cases; 100%), epithelial membrane antigen (positive in 22 of 22 cases; 100%) and S100 protein (positive in 18 of 21 cases; 85.7%).lusive brachyury expression in more than 90% of chordomas indicates its value as a unique, specific marker with other sensitive markers like cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and/or S100 protein in substantiating a diagnosis of chordoma, including on small biopsies.
T,   Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are initiating cells in colorectal cancer (CRC). Colorectal tumours undergo epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like processes at the invasive front, enabling invasion and metastasis, and recent studies have linked this process to the acquisition of stem cell-like properties. It is of fundamental importance to understand the molecular events leading to the establishment of cancer initiating cells and how these mechanisms relate to cellular transitions during tumourigenesis. We use an in vitro system to recapitulate changes in CRC cells at the invasive front (mesenchymal-like cells) and central mass (epithelial-like cells) of tumours. We show that the mesoderm inducer BRACHYURY is expressed in a subpopulation of CRC cells that resemble invasive front mesenchymal-like cells, where it acts to impose characteristics of CSCs in a fully reversible manner, suggesting reversible formation and modulation of such cells. BRACHYURY, itself regulated by the oncogene β-catenin, influences NANOG and other 'stemness' markers including a panel of markers defining CRC-CSC whose presence has been linked to poor patient prognosis. Similar regulation of NANOG through BRACHYURY was observed in other cells lines, suggesting this might be a pathway common to cancer cells undergoing mesenchymal transition. We suggest that BRACHYURY may regulate NANOG in mesenchymal-like CRC cells to impose a 'plastic-state', allowing competence of cells to respond to signals prompting invasion or metastasis.
T,   Chordomas are invasive tumors that develop from notochordal remnants and frequently occur in the skull base. The T gene and its product (brachyury) have recently been suggested to play an important role in chordoma progression. To date, few studies have investigated the relationship between the molecular/genetic characteristics of chordoma and patient prognosis. We analyzed 37 skull base chordomas for chromosomal copy number aberrations using comparative genomic hybridization, brachyury expression by immunohistochemistry, and T gene copy number by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The results of these molecular analyses and clinical parameters were compared with the patients' clinical courses. Univariate analyses using the log-rank test demonstrated that losses on chromosome 1p and gains on 1q and 2p were negatively correlated with progression-free survival, as were factors such as female sex, partial tumor removal, lack of postoperative irradiation, and high MIB-1 index. Expression of brachyury and copy number gain of the T gene were also significantly associated with shorter progression-free survival. Multivariate analysis using the Cox hazards model showed that lack of irradiation, gain on chromosome 2p, and expression of brachyury were independently associated with a poor prognosis. Our results suggest that brachyury-negative chordomas arebiologically distinct from brachyury-positive chordomas and that T/brachyury might be an appropriate molecular therapeutic target for chordoma. 
T,   The prognosis of patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is influenced             by the presence of lymph node metastasis. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT),             a process that involves events that convert adherent epithelial cells into individual             migratory cells that can invade the extracellular matrix, is critical for cancer             progression. Recently, the T-box transcription factor Brachyury was reported to             promote EMT in human carcinoma cell lines. We analyzed the relationship between             EMT (assessed by staining for E-cadherin and Vimentin) and the expression of Brachyury             in association with lymph node metastasis in oral SCC. Oral SCC biopsy specimens             (152 cases) were examined immunohistochemically for the expression of E-cadherin,             Vimentin and Brachyury. Expression of Brachyury was correlated with EMT (p=0.035)             and was significantly associated with lymph node and distant metastasis (p<0.05).             Logistic regression analysis showed that Brachyury and EMT were predictive factors             for lymph node metastasis (odds ratio 4.390 and 5.936, respectively) and that             EMT was a predictive factor for distant metastases (odds ratio 11.786). Our findings             present clinical evidence for an important role of Brachyury in EMT in oral SCC,             and suggest that Brachyury and EMT patterns are useful prognostic markers.
T,   Adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) is highly metastatic and resistant to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Recently, we reported that the T-box transcription factor Brachyury is a potential regulator of cancer stem cells (CSCs). Specifically, growth of CSCs was found to be controlled by Brachyury knockdown in AdCC. Since CSCs are resistant to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, this finding provides a new principle for therapies targeting CSCs. In the present study, we established that Brachyury knockdown suppresses chemoresistance and radioresistance in vitro. Brachyury was knocked down by transfecting Brachyury short hairpin RNA (shRNA) into the AdCC CSC cell line ACCS-M GFP. Brachyury knockdown significantly inhibited cell migration and invasion and suppressed chemoresistance. A quantitative PCR array of drug transporter genes revealed that knockdown of Brachyury caused down-regulation of ATP-binding cassette transporter genes. Furthermore, ACCS-M GFP radioresistance was significantly suppressed by Brachyury knockdown. Knockdown of Brachyury significantly sensitized ACCS-M GFP cells to chemoradiotherapy. This study demonstrates that Brachyury knockdown reduces invasiveness and chemoresistance and radioresistance of CSCs in vivo. Therefore, Brachyury knockdown may be a useful therapeutic tool for sensitizing CSCs to conventional chemoradiotherapy.
T,   The transcription factor brachyury (T, BRA) is one of the first markers of gastrulation and lineage specification in vertebrates. Despite its wide use and importance in stem cell and developmental biology, its functional genomic targets in human cells are largely unknown. Here, we use differentiating human embryonic stem cells to study the role of BRA in activin A-induced endoderm and BMP4-induced mesoderm progenitors. We show that BRA has distinct genome-wide binding landscapes in these two cell populations, and that BRA interacts and collaborates with SMAD1 or SMAD2/3 signalling to regulate the expression of its target genes in a cell-specific manner. Importantly, by manipulating the levels of BRA in cells exposed to different signalling environments, we demonstrate that BRA is essential for mesoderm but not for endoderm formation. Together, our data illuminate the function of BRA in the context of human embryonic development and show that the regulatory role of BRA is context dependent. Our study reinforces the importance of analysing the functions of a transcription factor in different cellular and signalling environments. 
T,   Brachyury is a transcription factor which is required for posterior mesoderm formation and differentiation as well as for notochord development during embryogenesis. Due to its expression in the neoplastic cells of chordoma, a malignant tumour deriving from notochordal remnants, but not in tumors showing a similar histology, brachyury has been proposed as a diagnostic marker of this neoplasia. Though commonly considered a hallmark of chordoma, the expression of brachyury has been also documented in the stromal cells of hemangioblastoma (HBL), a slow growing tumor which may involve the central nervous system (CNS) and, rarely, the kidney. Herein we review the role of brachyury immunohistochemical detection in the identification and differential diagnosis of chordoma and HBL towards histological mimickers and suggest that brachyury is added to the panel of immunohistochemical markers for the recognition of HBL in routinary practice, principally in unusual sites. 
T,   Although survival rates of colon cancer patients diagnosed at an early stage (T1-2N0M0; Dukes A) vary considerably according to the studies cited, several studies indicate development of distant metastases already occurring in a considerable percentage of these patients leading to the death of the patients. This particular high risk group cannot be identified properly as no marker exists to identify these patients. As the Wnt/Win pathway plays a crucial role in metastasis formation in colorectal carcinoma, we analysed whether the transcription factor brachyury critically involved in this pathway may predict metastasis formation in these patients. The expression of brachyury-homologous (T) was immunohistochemically analysed in 748 patients and the data were correlated with classical and newer prognostic markers in colorectal cancer. Early stages colorectal cancer patients (T1-2N0M0, Dukes A) showed a significantly decreased survival when brachyury was expressed in the tumour tissue while no correlation was observed in later tumour stages. Hence a subset of colorectal cancers exists in which the ability to metastasise is already present at early stages of tumour growth and this high risk group can now be detected by immunohistochemistry.
T,   Deletion 22q11.2 syndrome is the most frequent known microdeletion syndrome and is associated with a highly variable phenotype, including DiGeorge and Shprintzen (velocardiofacial) syndromes. Although haploinsufficiency of the T-box transcription factor gene TBX1 is thought to cause the phenotype, to date, only four different point mutations in TBX1 have been reported in association with six of the major features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. Although, for the two truncating mutations, loss of function was previously shown, the pathomechanism of the missense mutations remains unknown. We report a novel heterozygous missense mutation, H194Q, in a familial case of Shprintzen syndrome and show that this and the two previously reported missense mutations result in gain of function, possibly through stabilization of the protein dimer DNA complex. We therefore conclude that TBX1 gain-of-function mutations can result in the same phenotypic spectrum as haploinsufficiency caused by loss-of-function mutations or deletions.
T,   During embryonic development, multipotent cardiovascular progenitor cells are specified from early mesoderm. Using mouse ESCs in which gene expression can be temporally regulated, we have found that transient expression of Mesp1 dramatically accelerates and enhances multipotent cardiovascular progenitor specification through an intrinsic and cell autonomous mechanism. Genome-wide transcriptional analysis indicates that Mesp1 rapidly activates and represses a discrete set of genes, and chromatin immunoprecipitation shows that Mesp1 directly binds to regulatory DNA sequences located in the promoter of many key genes in the core cardiac transcriptional machinery, resulting in their rapid upregulation. Mesp1 also directly represses the expression of key genes regulating other early mesoderm and endoderm cell fates. Our results demonstrate that Mesp1 acts as a key regulatory switch during cardiovascular specification, residing at the top of the hierarchy of the gene network responsible for cardiovascular cell-fate determination.
T,   Increasing numbers of studies support the hypothesis that chordoma arises from notochordal cell rests, although the mechanism awaits further research. Brachyury is the first specific molecule linking chordoma with the notochord, and galectin-3 has been widely used as a marker of notochordal cells. We conducted a histological study of the expression of these two molecules in 46 classic chordoma specimens and unexpectedly found that classic chordoma tumor cells coexisted with benign notochordal cell rests in six specimens. Brachyury and galectin-3 expression were investigated by immunohistochemistry. All specimens contained atypical chordoma tumor cells set within an abundant myxoid matrix, which strongly expressed brachyury and galectin-3. However, brachyury and galectin-3 were not expressed in the notochordal cells. Benign notochordal cells, present as notochord rests, could undergo malignant transformation to form chordoma; however, the cause and role of brachyury and galectin-3 expression in chordoma tumorigenesis requires further careful study.
T,   We have cloned the human gene encoding the transcription factor T. T protein is vital for the formation of posterior mesoderm and axial development in all vertebrates. Brachyury mutant mice, which lack T protein, die in utero with abnormal notochord, posterior somites, and allantois. We have identified human T genomic clones and derived the mRNA sequence and gene structure. There is 91% amino acid identity between human and mouse T proteins overall and complete identity across 77 amino acids of the T-box motif within the DNA-binding domain. Human T expression is very similar to that found for T in other vertebrate species and is confined to cells derived from the notochord. The human T gene maps to chromosome 6q27 and is only the second human member of the T-box gene family to be described.
T,   Mixl1 is a homeodomain transcription factor required for mesoderm and endoderm patterning during mammalian embryogenesis. Despite its crucial function in development, co-factors that modulate the activity of Mixl1 remain poorly defined. Here we report that Mixl1 interacts physically and functionally with the T-box protein Brachyury and related members of the T-box family of transcription factors. Transcriptional and protein analyses demonstrated overlapping expression of Mixl1 and Brachyury during embryonic stem cell differentiation. In vitro protein interaction studies showed that the Mixl1 with Brachyury associated via their DNA-binding domains and gel shift assays revealed that the Brachyury T-box domain bound to Mixl1-DNA complexes. Furthermore, luciferase reporter experiments indicated that association of Mixl1 with Brachyury and related T-box factors inhibited the transactivating potential of Mixl1 on the Gsc and Pdgfrα promoters. Our results indicate that the activity of Mixl1 can be modulated by protein-protein interactions and that T-box factors can function as negative regulators of Mixl1 activity.
T,   Reverse transcription-PCR and Northern and Western blot analyses indicate that mRNA and protein encoded by the Brachyury gene are expressed by the pluripotent human embryonal carcinoma cell line NTERA2 and are only modestly down-regulated during retinoic acid-induced differentiation. This differentiation occurs along a neural lineage, with no obvious evidence of the formation of mesodermal derivatives. Several other human embryonal carcinoma cell lines that do not differentiate, a yolk sac carcinoma cell line and two choriocarcinoma cell lines, also express readily detectable levels of Brachyury mRNA and protein. Thus, in human teratocarcinomas, Brachyury expression is not necessarily an indicator of commitment to mesodermal differentiation.
T,   A small number of tumors bearing histological resemblance to axial chordoma arising from the bone or soft tissue outside the axial skeleton have been reported. These lesions have historically been referred to as parachordoma, chordoma periphericum (CP), or extra-axial chordoma (EAC). With the introduction of the immunohistochemical stain brachyury, a sensitive and specific marker for notochordal origin, chordomas arising in extra-axial locations (i.e., CP, EAC), are now diagnosed with more accuracy and distinguished from parachordoma, which resembles chordoma on histology. The distinction between EAC and parachordoma is clinically important because EAC confirmed by immunoreactivity for brachyury tends to grow and recur with local bone destruction. Prior to the introduction of brachyury, the diagnosis of EAC was challenging and therefore the imaging features of EAC have not been comprehensively described. We report two cases of recurrent EAC confirmed by the expression of brachyury arising from the distal femur and distal tibia and describe the imaging findings from radiography and MRI at initial diagnosis and at recurrence. 
T,   Chromosome 6 is a metacentric chromosome that constitutes about 6% of the human genome. The finished sequence comprises 166,880,988 base pairs, representing the largest chromosome sequenced so far. The entire sequence has been subjected to high-quality manual annotation, resulting in the evidence-supported identification of 1,557 genes and 633 pseudogenes. Here we report that at least 96% of the protein-coding genes have been identified, as assessed by multi-species comparative sequence analysis, and provide evidence for the presence of further, otherwise unsupported exons/genes. Among these are genes directly implicated in cancer, schizophrenia, autoimmunity and many other diseases. Chromosome 6 harbours the largest transfer RNA gene cluster in the genome; we show that this cluster co-localizes with a region of high transcriptional activity. Within the essential immune loci of the major histocompatibility complex, we find HLA-B to be the most polymorphic gene on chromosome 6 and in the human genome.
T,   Using high-resolution array-CGH, we identified unique duplications of a region on 6q27 in four multiplex families with at least three cases of chordoma, a cancer of presumed notochordal origin. The duplicated region contains only the T (brachyury) gene, which is important in notochord development and is expressed in most sporadic chordomas. Our findings highlight the value of screening for complex genomic rearrangements in searches for cancer-susceptibility genes.
T,   The National Institutes of Health Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC) Program is a multiinstitutional effort to identify and sequence a cDNA clone containing a complete ORF for each human and mouse gene. ESTs were generated from libraries enriched for full-length cDNAs and analyzed to identify candidate full-ORF clones, which then were sequenced to high accuracy. The MGC has currently sequenced and verified the full ORF for a nonredundant set of >9,000 human and >6,000 mouse genes. Candidate full-ORF clones for an additional 7,800 human and 3,500 mouse genes also have been identified. All MGC sequences and clones are available without restriction through public databases and clone distribution networks (see http:mgc.nci.nih.gov).
T,   The murine developmental mutation T identifies a gene required in mesoderm formation. T/T mutant embryos develop normally to the primitive streak stage; during early organogenesis they show insufficient mesoderm and absence of the notochord. The mutants die at around 10 days of gestation because of the lack of the allantois. We have localized the T mutation relative to DNA markers and used a combination of genetic and molecular techniques to clone the T gene. Expression of the T gene is restricted to nascent mesoderm and to the notochord, the tissues most strongly affected by the mutation. Recent results suggest that the T gene encodes a nuclear factor involved in establishing notochord cell identity and differentiation, and is directly or indirectly involved in the organization of axial development.
T,   Extra-axial soft tissue chordoma is rare. We report a case of extra-axial soft tissue chordoma of the right wrist in an 87-year-old man. The tumor was large, and the cut surface showed multinodular and myxoid appearance. Microscopically, nests of epithelioid and spindle cells were observed in the myxoid matrix. Vacuolated cells were also observed. The tumor cells were diffusely positive for brachyury and cytokeratin 19 on immunohistochemistry, suggesting that the tumor was extra-axial soft tissue chordoma. Extra-axial chordoma is the same entity as chordoma periphericum (parachordoma), as proposed by Laskowski and Dabska.