[  Extra-axial soft tissue chordoma is rare. We report a case of extra-axial soft tissue chordoma of the right wrist in an 87-year-old man. The tumor was large, and the cut surface showed multinodular and myxoid appearance. Microscopically, nests of epithelioid and spindle cells were observed in the myxoid matrix. Vacuolated cells were also observed. The tumor cells were diffusely positive for brachyury and cytokeratin 19 on immunohistochemistry, suggesting that the tumor was extra-axial soft tissue chordoma. Extra-axial chordoma is the same entity as chordoma periphericum (parachordoma), as proposed by Laskowski and Dabska.
,   The murine developmental mutation T identifies a gene required in mesoderm formation. T/T mutant embryos develop normally to the primitive streak stage; during early organogenesis they show insufficient mesoderm and absence of the notochord. The mutants die at around 10 days of gestation because of the lack of the allantois. We have localized the T mutation relative to DNA markers and used a combination of genetic and molecular techniques to clone the T gene. Expression of the T gene is restricted to nascent mesoderm and to the notochord, the tissues most strongly affected by the mutation. Recent results suggest that the T gene encodes a nuclear factor involved in establishing notochord cell identity and differentiation, and is directly or indirectly involved in the organization of axial development.
,   The National Institutes of Health Mammalian Gene Collection (MGC) Program is a multiinstitutional effort to identify and sequence a cDNA clone containing a complete ORF for each human and mouse gene. ESTs were generated from libraries enriched for full-length cDNAs and analyzed to identify candidate full-ORF clones, which then were sequenced to high accuracy. The MGC has currently sequenced and verified the full ORF for a nonredundant set of >9,000 human and >6,000 mouse genes. Candidate full-ORF clones for an additional 7,800 human and 3,500 mouse genes also have been identified. All MGC sequences and clones are available without restriction through public databases and clone distribution networks (see http:mgc.nci.nih.gov).
,   Using high-resolution array-CGH, we identified unique duplications of a region on 6q27 in four multiplex families with at least three cases of chordoma, a cancer of presumed notochordal origin. The duplicated region contains only the T (brachyury) gene, which is important in notochord development and is expressed in most sporadic chordomas. Our findings highlight the value of screening for complex genomic rearrangements in searches for cancer-susceptibility genes.
,   Chromosome 6 is a metacentric chromosome that constitutes about 6% of the human genome. The finished sequence comprises 166,880,988 base pairs, representing the largest chromosome sequenced so far. The entire sequence has been subjected to high-quality manual annotation, resulting in the evidence-supported identification of 1,557 genes and 633 pseudogenes. Here we report that at least 96% of the protein-coding genes have been identified, as assessed by multi-species comparative sequence analysis, and provide evidence for the presence of further, otherwise unsupported exons/genes. Among these are genes directly implicated in cancer, schizophrenia, autoimmunity and many other diseases. Chromosome 6 harbours the largest transfer RNA gene cluster in the genome; we show that this cluster co-localizes with a region of high transcriptional activity. Within the essential immune loci of the major histocompatibility complex, we find HLA-B to be the most polymorphic gene on chromosome 6 and in the human genome.
,   A small number of tumors bearing histological resemblance to axial chordoma arising from the bone or soft tissue outside the axial skeleton have been reported. These lesions have historically been referred to as parachordoma, chordoma periphericum (CP), or extra-axial chordoma (EAC). With the introduction of the immunohistochemical stain brachyury, a sensitive and specific marker for notochordal origin, chordomas arising in extra-axial locations (i.e., CP, EAC), are now diagnosed with more accuracy and distinguished from parachordoma, which resembles chordoma on histology. The distinction between EAC and parachordoma is clinically important because EAC confirmed by immunoreactivity for brachyury tends to grow and recur with local bone destruction. Prior to the introduction of brachyury, the diagnosis of EAC was challenging and therefore the imaging features of EAC have not been comprehensively described. We report two cases of recurrent EAC confirmed by the expression of brachyury arising from the distal femur and distal tibia and describe the imaging findings from radiography and MRI at initial diagnosis and at recurrence. 
,   Reverse transcription-PCR and Northern and Western blot analyses indicate that mRNA and protein encoded by the Brachyury gene are expressed by the pluripotent human embryonal carcinoma cell line NTERA2 and are only modestly down-regulated during retinoic acid-induced differentiation. This differentiation occurs along a neural lineage, with no obvious evidence of the formation of mesodermal derivatives. Several other human embryonal carcinoma cell lines that do not differentiate, a yolk sac carcinoma cell line and two choriocarcinoma cell lines, also express readily detectable levels of Brachyury mRNA and protein. Thus, in human teratocarcinomas, Brachyury expression is not necessarily an indicator of commitment to mesodermal differentiation.
,   Mixl1 is a homeodomain transcription factor required for mesoderm and endoderm patterning during mammalian embryogenesis. Despite its crucial function in development, co-factors that modulate the activity of Mixl1 remain poorly defined. Here we report that Mixl1 interacts physically and functionally with the T-box protein Brachyury and related members of the T-box family of transcription factors. Transcriptional and protein analyses demonstrated overlapping expression of Mixl1 and Brachyury during embryonic stem cell differentiation. In vitro protein interaction studies showed that the Mixl1 with Brachyury associated via their DNA-binding domains and gel shift assays revealed that the Brachyury T-box domain bound to Mixl1-DNA complexes. Furthermore, luciferase reporter experiments indicated that association of Mixl1 with Brachyury and related T-box factors inhibited the transactivating potential of Mixl1 on the Gsc and Pdgfrα promoters. Our results indicate that the activity of Mixl1 can be modulated by protein-protein interactions and that T-box factors can function as negative regulators of Mixl1 activity.
,   We have cloned the human gene encoding the transcription factor T. T protein is vital for the formation of posterior mesoderm and axial development in all vertebrates. Brachyury mutant mice, which lack T protein, die in utero with abnormal notochord, posterior somites, and allantois. We have identified human T genomic clones and derived the mRNA sequence and gene structure. There is 91% amino acid identity between human and mouse T proteins overall and complete identity across 77 amino acids of the T-box motif within the DNA-binding domain. Human T expression is very similar to that found for T in other vertebrate species and is confined to cells derived from the notochord. The human T gene maps to chromosome 6q27 and is only the second human member of the T-box gene family to be described.
,   Increasing numbers of studies support the hypothesis that chordoma arises from notochordal cell rests, although the mechanism awaits further research. Brachyury is the first specific molecule linking chordoma with the notochord, and galectin-3 has been widely used as a marker of notochordal cells. We conducted a histological study of the expression of these two molecules in 46 classic chordoma specimens and unexpectedly found that classic chordoma tumor cells coexisted with benign notochordal cell rests in six specimens. Brachyury and galectin-3 expression were investigated by immunohistochemistry. All specimens contained atypical chordoma tumor cells set within an abundant myxoid matrix, which strongly expressed brachyury and galectin-3. However, brachyury and galectin-3 were not expressed in the notochordal cells. Benign notochordal cells, present as notochord rests, could undergo malignant transformation to form chordoma; however, the cause and role of brachyury and galectin-3 expression in chordoma tumorigenesis requires further careful study.
,   During embryonic development, multipotent cardiovascular progenitor cells are specified from early mesoderm. Using mouse ESCs in which gene expression can be temporally regulated, we have found that transient expression of Mesp1 dramatically accelerates and enhances multipotent cardiovascular progenitor specification through an intrinsic and cell autonomous mechanism. Genome-wide transcriptional analysis indicates that Mesp1 rapidly activates and represses a discrete set of genes, and chromatin immunoprecipitation shows that Mesp1 directly binds to regulatory DNA sequences located in the promoter of many key genes in the core cardiac transcriptional machinery, resulting in their rapid upregulation. Mesp1 also directly represses the expression of key genes regulating other early mesoderm and endoderm cell fates. Our results demonstrate that Mesp1 acts as a key regulatory switch during cardiovascular specification, residing at the top of the hierarchy of the gene network responsible for cardiovascular cell-fate determination.
,   Deletion 22q11.2 syndrome is the most frequent known microdeletion syndrome and is associated with a highly variable phenotype, including DiGeorge and Shprintzen (velocardiofacial) syndromes. Although haploinsufficiency of the T-box transcription factor gene TBX1 is thought to cause the phenotype, to date, only four different point mutations in TBX1 have been reported in association with six of the major features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. Although, for the two truncating mutations, loss of function was previously shown, the pathomechanism of the missense mutations remains unknown. We report a novel heterozygous missense mutation, H194Q, in a familial case of Shprintzen syndrome and show that this and the two previously reported missense mutations result in gain of function, possibly through stabilization of the protein dimer DNA complex. We therefore conclude that TBX1 gain-of-function mutations can result in the same phenotypic spectrum as haploinsufficiency caused by loss-of-function mutations or deletions.
,   Although survival rates of colon cancer patients diagnosed at an early stage (T1-2N0M0; Dukes A) vary considerably according to the studies cited, several studies indicate development of distant metastases already occurring in a considerable percentage of these patients leading to the death of the patients. This particular high risk group cannot be identified properly as no marker exists to identify these patients. As the Wnt/Win pathway plays a crucial role in metastasis formation in colorectal carcinoma, we analysed whether the transcription factor brachyury critically involved in this pathway may predict metastasis formation in these patients. The expression of brachyury-homologous (T) was immunohistochemically analysed in 748 patients and the data were correlated with classical and newer prognostic markers in colorectal cancer. Early stages colorectal cancer patients (T1-2N0M0, Dukes A) showed a significantly decreased survival when brachyury was expressed in the tumour tissue while no correlation was observed in later tumour stages. Hence a subset of colorectal cancers exists in which the ability to metastasise is already present at early stages of tumour growth and this high risk group can now be detected by immunohistochemistry.
,   Brachyury is a transcription factor which is required for posterior mesoderm formation and differentiation as well as for notochord development during embryogenesis. Due to its expression in the neoplastic cells of chordoma, a malignant tumour deriving from notochordal remnants, but not in tumors showing a similar histology, brachyury has been proposed as a diagnostic marker of this neoplasia. Though commonly considered a hallmark of chordoma, the expression of brachyury has been also documented in the stromal cells of hemangioblastoma (HBL), a slow growing tumor which may involve the central nervous system (CNS) and, rarely, the kidney. Herein we review the role of brachyury immunohistochemical detection in the identification and differential diagnosis of chordoma and HBL towards histological mimickers and suggest that brachyury is added to the panel of immunohistochemical markers for the recognition of HBL in routinary practice, principally in unusual sites. 
,   The transcription factor brachyury (T, BRA) is one of the first markers of gastrulation and lineage specification in vertebrates. Despite its wide use and importance in stem cell and developmental biology, its functional genomic targets in human cells are largely unknown. Here, we use differentiating human embryonic stem cells to study the role of BRA in activin A-induced endoderm and BMP4-induced mesoderm progenitors. We show that BRA has distinct genome-wide binding landscapes in these two cell populations, and that BRA interacts and collaborates with SMAD1 or SMAD2/3 signalling to regulate the expression of its target genes in a cell-specific manner. Importantly, by manipulating the levels of BRA in cells exposed to different signalling environments, we demonstrate that BRA is essential for mesoderm but not for endoderm formation. Together, our data illuminate the function of BRA in the context of human embryonic development and show that the regulatory role of BRA is context dependent. Our study reinforces the importance of analysing the functions of a transcription factor in different cellular and signalling environments. 
,   Adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) is highly metastatic and resistant to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Recently, we reported that the T-box transcription factor Brachyury is a potential regulator of cancer stem cells (CSCs). Specifically, growth of CSCs was found to be controlled by Brachyury knockdown in AdCC. Since CSCs are resistant to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, this finding provides a new principle for therapies targeting CSCs. In the present study, we established that Brachyury knockdown suppresses chemoresistance and radioresistance in vitro. Brachyury was knocked down by transfecting Brachyury short hairpin RNA (shRNA) into the AdCC CSC cell line ACCS-M GFP. Brachyury knockdown significantly inhibited cell migration and invasion and suppressed chemoresistance. A quantitative PCR array of drug transporter genes revealed that knockdown of Brachyury caused down-regulation of ATP-binding cassette transporter genes. Furthermore, ACCS-M GFP radioresistance was significantly suppressed by Brachyury knockdown. Knockdown of Brachyury significantly sensitized ACCS-M GFP cells to chemoradiotherapy. This study demonstrates that Brachyury knockdown reduces invasiveness and chemoresistance and radioresistance of CSCs in vivo. Therefore, Brachyury knockdown may be a useful therapeutic tool for sensitizing CSCs to conventional chemoradiotherapy.
,   The prognosis of patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is influenced             by the presence of lymph node metastasis. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT),             a process that involves events that convert adherent epithelial cells into individual             migratory cells that can invade the extracellular matrix, is critical for cancer             progression. Recently, the T-box transcription factor Brachyury was reported to             promote EMT in human carcinoma cell lines. We analyzed the relationship between             EMT (assessed by staining for E-cadherin and Vimentin) and the expression of Brachyury             in association with lymph node metastasis in oral SCC. Oral SCC biopsy specimens             (152 cases) were examined immunohistochemically for the expression of E-cadherin,             Vimentin and Brachyury. Expression of Brachyury was correlated with EMT (p=0.035)             and was significantly associated with lymph node and distant metastasis (p<0.05).             Logistic regression analysis showed that Brachyury and EMT were predictive factors             for lymph node metastasis (odds ratio 4.390 and 5.936, respectively) and that             EMT was a predictive factor for distant metastases (odds ratio 11.786). Our findings             present clinical evidence for an important role of Brachyury in EMT in oral SCC,             and suggest that Brachyury and EMT patterns are useful prognostic markers.
,   Chordomas are invasive tumors that develop from notochordal remnants and frequently occur in the skull base. The T gene and its product (brachyury) have recently been suggested to play an important role in chordoma progression. To date, few studies have investigated the relationship between the molecular/genetic characteristics of chordoma and patient prognosis. We analyzed 37 skull base chordomas for chromosomal copy number aberrations using comparative genomic hybridization, brachyury expression by immunohistochemistry, and T gene copy number by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The results of these molecular analyses and clinical parameters were compared with the patients' clinical courses. Univariate analyses using the log-rank test demonstrated that losses on chromosome 1p and gains on 1q and 2p were negatively correlated with progression-free survival, as were factors such as female sex, partial tumor removal, lack of postoperative irradiation, and high MIB-1 index. Expression of brachyury and copy number gain of the T gene were also significantly associated with shorter progression-free survival. Multivariate analysis using the Cox hazards model showed that lack of irradiation, gain on chromosome 2p, and expression of brachyury were independently associated with a poor prognosis. Our results suggest that brachyury-negative chordomas arebiologically distinct from brachyury-positive chordomas and that T/brachyury might be an appropriate molecular therapeutic target for chordoma. 
,   Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are initiating cells in colorectal cancer (CRC). Colorectal tumours undergo epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like processes at the invasive front, enabling invasion and metastasis, and recent studies have linked this process to the acquisition of stem cell-like properties. It is of fundamental importance to understand the molecular events leading to the establishment of cancer initiating cells and how these mechanisms relate to cellular transitions during tumourigenesis. We use an in vitro system to recapitulate changes in CRC cells at the invasive front (mesenchymal-like cells) and central mass (epithelial-like cells) of tumours. We show that the mesoderm inducer BRACHYURY is expressed in a subpopulation of CRC cells that resemble invasive front mesenchymal-like cells, where it acts to impose characteristics of CSCs in a fully reversible manner, suggesting reversible formation and modulation of such cells. BRACHYURY, itself regulated by the oncogene β-catenin, influences NANOG and other 'stemness' markers including a panel of markers defining CRC-CSC whose presence has been linked to poor patient prognosis. Similar regulation of NANOG through BRACHYURY was observed in other cells lines, suggesting this might be a pathway common to cancer cells undergoing mesenchymal transition. We suggest that BRACHYURY may regulate NANOG in mesenchymal-like CRC cells to impose a 'plastic-state', allowing competence of cells to respond to signals prompting invasion or metastasis.
,   Chordoma is a rare, notochordal tumor with a characteristic histomorphology and immunohistochemical profile. At times, it presents a diagnostic challenge, especially in small biopsies. Brachyury, a nuclear transcription factor, is a recently described immunohistochemical marker for diagnosing chordomas.study the sensitivity and specificity of brachyury in diagnosing chordomas by comparing its expression in axial chordomas with nonchordomatous tumors.ty-one axial chordomas, accessioned during a 10-year period, and 58 nonchordomatous tumors were subjected to brachyury staining by immunohistochemistry. 51 chordomas occurred in 36 men and 15 women. Sitewise, 34 cases (66.7%) occurred in the sacrococcyx, 9 (17.6%) in the spine, and 8 (15.7%) in the skull base. Histologically, 34 cases (66.7%) were classical chordomas, 13 cases (25.5%) had a dominant chondroid component, and 2 cases each (3.9%) were chondroid chordomas and dedifferentiated chordomas, respectively. Brachyury staining was positive in 46 of the 51 chordomas (90.2%) and negative in all 58 nonchordomatous tumors. The dedifferentiated area in 2 chordomas was negative for brachyury staining. Fourteen of 15 chordomas with chondroid component showed positive brachyury staining. Immunohistochemical expression of other markers, included cytokeratin (positive in 23 of 23 cases; 100%), epithelial membrane antigen (positive in 22 of 22 cases; 100%) and S100 protein (positive in 18 of 21 cases; 85.7%).lusive brachyury expression in more than 90% of chordomas indicates its value as a unique, specific marker with other sensitive markers like cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and/or S100 protein in substantiating a diagnosis of chordoma, including on small biopsies.
,   Based on studies in animals and humans, PAX3 and T (brachyury) are candidate genes for spina bifida. However, neither gene has been definitively identified as a risk factor for this condition.ger sequencing was used to identify variants in all PAX3 and T exons and promoter regions in 114 spina bifida cases. For known variants, allele frequencies in cases were compared with those from public databases using unadjusted odds ratios. Novel variants were genotyped in parents and assessed for predicted functional impact.identified common variants in PAX3 (n = 2) and T (n = 3) for which the allele frequencies in cases were significantly different from those reported in at least one public database. We also identified novel variants in both PAX3 (n = 11) and T (n = 1) in spina bifida cases. Several of the novel PAX3 variants are predicted to be highly conserved and/or impact gene function or expression.se studies provide some evidence that common variants of PAX3 and T are associated with spina bifida. Rare and novel variants in these genes were also identified in affected individuals. However, additional studies will be required to determine whether these variants influence the risk of spina bifida.
,   Cellular differentiation and lineage commitment are considered to be robust and irreversible processes during development. Recent work has shown that mouse and human fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state with a combination of four transcription factors. We hypothesized that combinatorial expression of chondrocyte-specific transcription factors could directly convert human placental cells into chondrocytes. Starting from a pool of candidate genes, we identified a combination of only five genes (5F pool)-BCL6, T (also called BRACHYURY), c-MYC, MITF, and BAF60C (also called SMARCD3)-that rapidly and efficiently convert postnatal human chorion and decidual cells into chondrocytes. The cells generated expressed multiple cartilage-specific genes, such as Collagen type II α1, LINK PROTEIN-1, and AGGRECAN, and exhibited characteristics of cartilage both in vivo and in vitro. Expression of the endogenous genes for T and MITF was initiated, implying that the cell conversion is due to not only the forced expression of the transgenes, but also to cellular reprogramming by the transgenes. This direct conversion system from noncartilage tissue to cartilaginous tissue is a substantial advance toward understanding cartilage development, cell-based therapy, and oncogenesis of chondrocytes.
,   Our recent work demonstrated that common cardiovascular progenitor cells are characterized and induced by the expression of the transcription factor mesoderm posterior1 (MesP1) in vertebrate embryos and murine embryonic stem cells. As the proliferative potential of stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes is limited, it is crucial to understand how MesP1 expression is mediated in order to achieve reasonable and reliable yields for novel stem cell-based therapeutic options. As potential upstream regulators of MesP1, we therefore analysed Eomes and Brachyury(T), which had been controversially discussed as being crucial for cardiovasculogenic lineage formation.d-type and transgenic murine embryonic stem cell lines, mRNA analyses, embryoid body formation, and cell sorting revealed that the MesP1 positive population emerges from the Brachyury(T) positive fraction. In situ hybridizations using wild-type mouse embryos confirmed that Brachyury(T) colocalises with MesP1 in vivo. Likewise, shRNA-based loss of Brachyury(T) causes a dramatic decrease in MesP1 expression accompanied by reduced cardiac markers in differentiating embryonic stem cells, which is reflected in vivo via in situ hybridizations using Brachyury(T) knock-out embryos where MesP1 mRNA is greatly abolished. We finally defined a 3.4 kb proximal MesP1-promoter fragment which is directly bound and activated by Brachyury(T) via a T responsive element as shown via bandshift, chromatin immuneprecipitation, and reporter assays. work contributes to the understanding of the earliest cardiovasculogenic events and may become an important prerequisite for cell therapy, tissue engineering, and pharmacological testing in the culture dish using pluripotent stem cell-derived as well as directly reprogrammed cardiovascular cell types.
,   The clinical significance of Brachyury expression and its relationship to epithelial-mesenchymal transition in primary lung carcinoma is unclear.ression of Brachyury mRNA was investigated in 104 surgically resected primary lung carcinoma tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis of Brachyury transcription factor, Slug, E-cadherin, IL-8, N-cadherin, and Ki67 was performed in 67 of 104 cases, and their expression was correlated to prognoses and clinicopathological factors.chyury mRNA expression in primary lung carcinoma tissues was a significant predictor of poor prognosis for 5-year disease-free survival and overall survival rates and was significantly correlated to vascular invasion, lymphatic permeation, histological grade, pathologic T stage, and pathologic N stage (P < 0.05). Brachyury mRNA expression was significantly inversely correlated to E-cadherin expression (P = 0.0252) and positively correlated to IL-8 protein (P = 0.0241) and to Slug protein (P = 0.0243) in adenocarcinoma tissues.ositive association between Brachyury and Slug and IL-8, and a negative association with E-cadherin may lead to invasiveness and metastasis in primary lung carcinoma. Brachyury mRNA expression is a significant predictor of poor prognosis in primary lung carcinoma.
,   Chordoma is a rare malignant tumour of bone, the molecular marker of which is the expression of the transcription factor, brachyury. Having recently demonstrated that silencing brachyury induces growth arrest in a chordoma cell line, we now seek to identify its downstream target genes. Here we use an integrated functional genomics approach involving shRNA-mediated brachyury knockdown, gene expression microarray, ChIP-seq experiments, and bioinformatics analysis to achieve this goal. We confirm that the T-box binding motif of human brachyury is identical to that found in mouse, Xenopus, and zebrafish development, and that brachyury acts primarily as an activator of transcription. Using human chordoma samples for validation purposes, we show that brachyury binds 99 direct targets and indirectly influences the expression of 64 other genes, thereby acting as a master regulator of an elaborate oncogenic transcriptional network encompassing diverse signalling pathways including components of the cell cycle, and extracellular matrix components. Given the wide repertoire of its active binding and the relative specific localization of brachyury to the tumour cells, we propose that an RNA interference-based gene therapy approach is a plausible therapeutic avenue worthy of investigation.
,   A variety of analyses, including fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), quantitative PCR (qPCR) and array CGH (aCGH), have been performed on a series of chordomas from 181 patients. Twelve of 181 (7%) tumours displayed amplification of the T locus and an additional two cases showed focal amplification; 70/181 (39%) tumours were polysomic for chromosome 6, and 8/181 (4.5%) primary tumours showed a minor allelic gain of T as assessed by FISH. No germline alteration of the T locus was identified in non-neoplastic tissue from 40 patients. Copy number gain of T was seen in a similar percentage of sacrococcygeal, mobile spine and base of skull tumours. Knockdown of T in the cell line, U-CH1, which showed polysomy of chromosome 6 involving 6q27, resulted in a marked decrease in cell proliferation and morphological features consistent with a senescence-like phenotype. The U-CH1 cell line was validated as representing chordoma by the generation of xenografts, which showed typical chordoma morphology and immunohistochemistry in the NOD/SCID/interleukin 2 receptor [IL2r]gammanull mouse model. In conclusion, chromosomal aberrations resulting in gain of the T locus are common in sporadic chordomas and expression of this gene is critical for proliferation of chordoma cells in vitro.
,   BMP is thought to induce hESC differentiation toward multiple lineages including mesoderm and trophoblast. The BMP-induced trophoblast phenotype is a long-standing paradox in stem cell biology. Here we readdressed BMP function in hESCs and mouse epiblast-derived cells. We found that BMP4 cooperates with FGF2 (via ERK) to induce mesoderm and to inhibit endoderm differentiation. These conditions induced cells with high levels of BRACHYURY (BRA) that coexpressed CDX2. BRA was necessary for and preceded CDX2 expression; both genes were essential for expression not only of mesodermal genes but also of trophoblast-associated genes. Maximal expression of the latter was seen in the absence of FGF but these cells coexpressed mesodermal genes and moreover they differed in cell surface and epigenetic properties from placental trophoblast. We conclude that BMP induces human and mouse pluripotent stem cells primarily to form mesoderm, rather than trophoblast, acting through BRA and CDX2.
,   The T gene (brachyury gene) is the founding member of the T-box family of transcription factors and is vital for the formation and differentiation of the mesoderm and the axial development of all vertebrates.report here on four patients from three consanguineous families exhibiting sacral agenesis, a persistent notochordal canal and abnormal ossification of the vertebral bodies, and the identification and characterisation of their underlying genetic defect. Given the consanguineous nature and the similarity of the phenotypes between the three families, we performed homozygosity mapping and identified a common 4.1 Mb homozygous region on chromosome 6q27, containing T, brachyury homologue (mouse) or T. Sequencing of T in the affected individuals led to the identification of a homozygous missense mutation, p.H171R, in the highly conserved T-box. The homozygous mutation results in diminished DNA binding, increased cell growth, and interferes with the normal expression of genes involved in ossification, notochord maintenance and axial mesoderm development.have identified a shared homozygous mutation in three families in T and linked it to a novel syndrome consisting of sacral agenesis, a persistent notochordal canal and abnormal ossification of the vertebral bodies. We suggest that screening for the ossification of the vertebrae is warranted in patients with sacral agenesis to evaluate the possible causal involvement of T.
,   The murine tumor suppressor p19(ARF) (p14(ARF) in humans) is thought to fulfill an important protective role in preventing primary cells from oncogenic transformation via its action in the p53 pathway. Several disease-implicated regulators of p19(ARF) are known to date, among which are the T-box genes TBX2, which resides on an amplicon in primary breast tumors, and TBX3, which is mutated in the human developmental disorder Ulnar-Mammary syndrome. Here we identify a variant T-site, matching 13 of 20 nucleotides of a consensus T-site, as the essential TBX2/TBX3-binding element in the human p14(ARF) promoter. Mutant analysis indicates that both the consensus T-box and a C-terminal conserved repression domain are essential for p14(ARF) repression. Whereas the core nucleotides required for interaction of the archetypal T-box protein Brachyury with a consensus T-site are conserved in the variant site, additional flanking nucleotides contribute to the specificity of TBX2 binding. This is illustrated by the inability of TBX1A or Xbra to activate via the variant p14(ARF) T-site. Importantly, this suggests a hitherto unsuspected level of specificity associated with T-box factors and corresponding recognition sites in regulating their target genes in vivo.
,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is emerging as a critical factor for the progression and metastasis of carcinomas, as well as drug resistance. The T-box transcription factor Brachyury has been recently characterized as a driver of EMT in human carcinoma cells. The purpose of this study was to characterize Brachyury as a potential target for lung cancer therapy. expression of Brachyury was evaluated by PCR and by immunohistochemistry in human lung tumors and adult normal tissues. Brachyury gene copy number and promoter methylation status were analyzed in tumor tissues with various levels of Brachyury expression. Lung carcinoma cells' susceptibility to T-cell lysis and EGF receptor (EGFR) kinase inhibition were also evaluated relative to the levels of Brachyury. results showed Brachyury protein expression in 41% of primary lung carcinomas, including 48% of adenocarcinomas and 25% of squamous cell carcinomas. With the exception of normal testis and some thyroid tissues, the majority of normal tissues evaluated in this study were negative for the expression of Brachyury protein. Brachyury-specific T cells could lyse Brachyury-positive tumors and the level of Brachyury corresponded to resistance of tumor cells to EGFR kinase inhibition.hypothesize that the elimination of Brachyury-positive tumor cells may be able to prevent and/or diminish tumor dissemination and the establishment of metastases. The ability of Brachyury-specific T-cell lines to lyse Brachyury-positive tumor cells, in vitro, supports the development of Brachyury-based immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of lung cancer.
,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a process associated with the metastasis of solid tumors as well as with the acquisition of resistance to standard anticancer modalities. A major initiator of EMT in carcinoma cells is TGF-β, which has been shown to induce the expression of several transcription factors ultimately responsible for initiating and maintaining the EMT program. We have previously identified Brachyury, a T-box transcription factor, as an inducer of mesenchymal features in human carcinoma cells. In this study, a potential link between Brachyury and TGF-β signaling has been investigated. The results show for the first time that Brachyury expression is enhanced during TGF-β1-induced EMT in various human cancer cell lines, and that a positive feedback loop is established between Brachyury and TGF-β1 in mesenchymal-like tumor cells. In this context, Brachyury overexpression is shown to promote upregulation of TGF-β1 at the mRNA and protein levels, an effect mediated by activation of the TGF-β1 promoter in the presence of high levels of Brachyury. Furthermore, inhibition of TGF-β1 signaling by a small-molecule inhibitor of TGF-β receptor type I decreases Brachyury expression, induces a mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition, and renders cancer cells more susceptible to chemotherapy. This study thus has implications for the future development of clinical trials using TGF-β inhibitors in combination with other anticancer agents.
,   The continued turn over of human embryonic stem cells (hESC) while maintaining an undifferentiated state is dependent on the regulation of the cell cycle. Here we asked the question if a single cell cycle gene could regulate the self-renewal or pluripotency properties of hESC. We identified that the protein expression of the p27(Kip)¹ cell cycle inhibitor is low in hESC cells and increased with differentiation. By adopting a gain and loss of function strategy we forced or reduced its expression in undifferentiating conditions to define its functional role in self-renewal and pluripotency. Using undifferentiation conditions, overexpression of p27(Kip)¹ in hESC lead to a G₁phase arrest with an enlarged and flattened hESC morphology and consequent loss of self-renewal ability. Loss of p27(Kip)¹ caused an elongated/scatter cell-like phenotype involving up-regulation of Brachyury and Twist gene expression. We demonstrate the novel finding that p27(Kip)¹ protein occupies the Twist1 gene promoter and manipulation of p27(Kip)¹ by gain and loss of function is associated with Twist gene expression changes. These results define p27(Kip)¹ expression levels as critical for self-renewal and pluripotency in hESC and suggest a role for p27(Kip)¹ in controlling an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in hESC.
,   Chordoma is a rare bone cancer that is believed to originate from notochordal remnants. We previously identified germline T duplication as a major susceptibility mechanism in several chordoma families. Recently, a common genetic variant in T (rs2305089) was significantly associated with the risk of sporadic chordoma. We sequenced all T exons in 24 familial cases and 54 unaffected family members from eight chordoma families (three with T duplications), 103 sporadic cases, and 160 unrelated controls. We also measured T copy number variation in all sporadic cases. We confirmed the association between the previously reported variant rs2305089 and risk of familial [odds ratio (OR) = 2.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.93, 7.25, P = 0.067] and sporadic chordoma (OR = 2.85, 95% CI = 1.89, 4.29, P < 0.0001). We also identified a second common variant, rs1056048, that was strongly associated with chordoma in families (OR = 4.14, 95% CI = 1.43, 11.92, P = 0.0086). Among sporadic cases, another common variant (rs3816300) was significantly associated with risk when jointly analyzed with rs2305089. The association with rs3816300 was significantly stronger in cases with early age onset. In addition, we identified three rare variants that were only observed among sporadic chordoma cases, all of which have potential functional relevance based on in silico predictions. Finally, we did not observe T duplication in any sporadic chordoma case. Our findings further highlight the importance of the T gene in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic chordoma and suggest a complex susceptibility related to T.
,   The T-box transcription factor Brachyury, a molecule frequently detected in human cancers but seldom found in normal adult tissue, has recently been characterized as a driver of the epithelial-to-mesenchymal switch of human carcinomas. In the current investigation, we present data demonstrating that in two different human lung carcinoma models expression of Brachyury strongly correlates with increased in vitro resistance to cytotoxic therapies, such as chemotherapy and radiation. We also demonstrate that chemotherapy treatment in vitro selects for tumor cells with high levels of Brachyury and that the degree of resistance to therapy correlates with the level of Brachyury expression. In vitro and in vivo, human lung carcinoma cells with higher levels of Brachyury divide at slower rates than those with lower levels of Brachyury, a phenomenon associated with marked downregulation of cyclin D1, phosphorylated Rb and CDKN1A (p21). Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays revealed that Brachyury binds to a half T-box consensus site located within the promoter region of the p21 gene, indicating a potential mechanism for the observed therapeutic resistance associated with Brachyury expression. Finally, we demonstrate that in vivo treatment of tumor xenografts with chemotherapy results in the selective growth of resistant tumors characterized by high levels of Brachyury expression. Altogether, these results suggest that Brachyury expression may attenuate cell cycle progression, enabling tumor cells to become less susceptible to chemotherapy and radiation in human carcinomas. 
,   Chordoma is a neoplasm of notochordal differentiation that typically occurs in the axial skeleton. Accurate diagnosis is therapeutically important but can be challenging, especially in fine-needle aspiration (FNA) and core needle biopsy (CNB). Immunohistochemistry for the transcription factor brachyury (T) has recently proven diagnostically useful in whole-tissue sections. Our aim was to compare brachyury performance with conventional markers (S-100, EMA, keratin) and to evaluate its utility in distinguishing chordoma from cytomorphologic mimics. Brachyury immunohistochemistry was performed on chordoma (8 FNA, 12 CNB), chondrosarcoma (10 FNA), and metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma (12 FNA). Immunohistochemistry performed at the time of diagnosis was also reviewed. Brachyury was positive in 17 (85%) cases of chordoma and typically showed moderate-to-strong nuclear staining. Of five sets of concurrent FNA and CNB, four pairs were positive for brachyury in both samples and one pair was positive for brachyury in the CNB and negative in the cell block. S-100, EMA, and keratin stains were available for 13 chordomas: 9 (69%) cases (including the 3 negative for brachyury) were positive for S-100 and keratin or EMA; 4 cases were keratin positive but S-100 negative. No nuclear brachyury staining was seen in chondrosarcoma or adenocarcinoma, though two adenocarcinomas showed cytoplasmic staining. Brachyury separates chordoma from cytomorphologic mimics with high sensitivity and specificity in small biopsies. As a single test, brachyury has higher sensitivity than a combined panel of S-100 and epithelial markers. When added to the conventional panel, brachyury increases sensitivity to 100% without sacrificing specificity.
,   Successful therapy of patients with prostate cancer is highly dependent on reliable diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. Brachyury is considered a negative prognostic factor in colon and lung cancer; however, there are no reports on Brachyury's expression in prostate cancer.this study, we aimed to assess the impact of Brachyury expression in prostate tumorigenesis using a large series of human prostate samples comprising benign tissue, prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) lesions, localized tumor, and metastatic tissues. The results obtained were compared with what can be inferred from the Oncomine database. In addition, multiple in vitro models of prostate cancer were used to dissect the biologic role of Brachyury in prostate cancer progression.found that Brachyury is significantly overexpressed in prostate cancer and metastatic tumors when compared with normal tissues, both at protein and at mRNA levels. Brachyury expression in the cytoplasm correlates with highly aggressive tumors, whereas the presence of Brachyury in the nucleus is correlated with tumor invasion. We found that Brachyury-positive cells present higher viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion rates than Brachyury-negative cells. Microarray analysis further showed that genes co-expressed with Brachyury are clustered in oncogenic-related pathways, namely cell motility, cell-cycle regulation, and cell metabolism.lectively, the present study suggests that Brachyury plays an important role in prostate cancer aggressiveness and points, for the first time, to Brachyury as a significant predictor of poor prostate cancer prognosis. Our work paves the way for future studies assessing Brachyury as a possible prostate cancer therapeutic target.
,   Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) induced by TGF-β1 is one of well-recognized factors contributing to renal fibrosis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of EMT are not fully understood. Brachyury, an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor, was recently identified as an important factor promoting EMT in human carcinoma cell lines. There is no evidence that Brachyury is involved in renal tubular EMT. results demonstrated that Brachyury was prominently induced in TGF-β1-treated human proximal tubular epithelial (HK-2) cells and that this induction was accompanied by changes characteristic of EMT. Blockage of Brachyury expression by short interfering RNA (siRNA) in HK-2 cells effectively reversed the TGF-β1-induced EMT phenotype. Brachyury induction repressed E-cadherin transcription; the E-cadherin promoter contains a Brachyury binding site, and decreased expression of E-cadherin occurred in Brachyury-overexpressing cells when they were transfected with reporter constructs using the promoter. This effect was partially mediated by Slug and Snail, as knockdown of Snail and Slug by siRNA effectively reversed Brachyury-mediated EMT and partially restored E-cadherin expression. The expression of Brachyury also presented in a rat model of obstructive nephropathy and in tubulointerstitial fibrosis tissues of IgA nephropathy, suggesting that it may have a role in EMT and renal fibrosis in vivo. results demonstrate for the first time that Brachyury plays an important role in regulating TGF-β1-mediated renal EMT and could be an attractive target for progression of renal disease therapies.
,   The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has been implicated as an important process in tumor cell invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance. The transcription factor brachyury has recently been described as a driver of EMT of human carcinoma cells.chyury mRNA and protein expression was analyzed in human breast carcinomas and benign tissues. The role of brachyury in breast tumor prognosis and drug resistance and the ability of brachyury-specific T cells to lyse human breast carcinoma cells were also evaluated. Kaplan-Meier analyses were used to evaluate the association between brachyury expression and survival. All statistical tests were two-sided. level of brachyury expression in breast cancer cells was positively associated with their ability to invade the extracellular matrix, efficiently form mammospheres in vitro, and resist the cytotoxic effect of docetaxel. A comparison of survival among breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen in the adjuvant setting who had tumors with high vs low brachyury mRNA expression demonstrated that high expression of brachyury is associated as an independent variable with higher risk of recurrence (hazard ratio [HR] = 7.5; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.4 to 23.5; P = 5.14×10(-4)) and distant metastasis (HR = 15.2; 95% CI = 3.5 to 66.3; P = 3.01×10(-4)). We also demonstrated that brachyury-specific T cells can lyse human breast carcinoma cells. studies reported here provide the rationale for the use of a vaccine targeting brachyury for the therapy of human breast cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination therapies.
,   The Generalist Genes Hypothesis is based upon quantitative genetic findings which indicate that many of the same genes influence diverse cognitive abilities and disabilities across age. In a recent genome-wide association study of mathematical ability in 10-year-old children, 43 SNP associations were nominated from scans of pooled DNA, 10 of which were validated in an individually genotyped sample. The 4927 children in this genotyped sample have also been studied at 7, 9 and 12 years of age on measures of mathematical ability, as well as on other cognitive and learning abilities.ng these data we have explored the Generalist Genes Hypothesis by assessing the association of the available measures of ability at age 10 and other ages with two composite 'SNP-set' scores, formed from the full set of 43 nominated SNPs and the sub-set of 10 SNPs that were previously found to be associated with mathematical ability at age 10. Both SNP sets yielded significant associations with mathematical ability at ages 7, 9 and 12, as well as with reading and general cognitive ability at age 10.hough effect sizes are small, our results correspond with those of quantitative genetic research in supporting the Generalist Genes Hypothesis. SNP sets identified on the basis of their associations with mathematical ability at age 10 show associations with mathematical ability at earlier and later ages and show associations of similar magnitude with reading and general cognitive ability. With small effect sizes expected in such complex traits, future studies may be able to capitalise on power by searching for 'generalist genes' using longitudinal and multivariate approaches.
,   To date, most studies aimed at discovering genetic factors influencing treatment response in asthma have focused on biologic candidate genes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) can rapidly identify novel pharmacogenetic loci.investigate if GWAS can identify novel pharmacogenetic loci in asthma.ng phenotypic and GWAS genotype data available through the NHLBI-funded Single-nucleotide polymorphism Health association-Asthma Resource Project, we analyzed differences in FEV(1) in response to inhaled corticosteroids in 418 white subjects with asthma. Of the 444,088 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) analyzed, the lowest 50 SNPs by P value were genotyped in an independent clinical trial population of 407 subjects with asthma. lowest P value for the GWAS analysis was 2.09 × 10(-6). Of the 47 SNPs successfully genotyped in the replication population, three were associated under the same genetic model in the same direction, including two of the top four SNPs ranked by P value. Combined P values for these SNPs were 1.06 × 10(-5) for rs3127412 and 6.13 × 10(-6) for rs6456042. Although these two were not located within a gene, they were tightly correlated with three variants mapping to potentially functional regions within the T gene. After genotyping, each T gene variant was also associated with lung function response to inhaled corticosteroids in each of the trials associated with rs3127412 and rs6456042 in the initial GWAS analysis. On average, there was a twofold to threefold difference in FEV(1) response for those subjects homozygous for the wild-type versus mutant alleles for each T gene SNP.ome-wide association has identified the T gene as a novel pharmacogenetic locus for inhaled corticosteroid response in asthma.
,   No major susceptibility genes for sporadically occurring congenital vertebral malformations (CVM) in humans have been identified to date. Body patterning genes whose mutants cause axial skeletal anomalies in mice are candidates for human CVM susceptibility. T (also known as Brachyury) and TBX6 are critical genes needed to establish mesodermal identity. We hypothesized that mutations in T and/or TBX6 contribute to the pathogenesis of human CVMs. The complete T and TBX6 coding regions, splice junctions, and proximal 500 bp of the promoters were sequenced in 50 phenotyped patients with CVM. Three unrelated patients with sacral agenesis, Klippel-Feil syndrome, and multiple cervical and thoracic vertebral malformations were heterozygous for a c.1013C>T substitution, resulting in a predicted Ala338Val missense alteration in exon 8. A clinically unaffected parent of each patient also harbored the substitution, but the variant did not occur in an ethnically diverse, 443-person reference population. The c.1013C>T variant is significantly associated with CVM (p < 0.001). Alanine 338 shows moderate conservation across species, and valine at this position has not been reported in any species. A fourth patient harbored a c.908-8C>T variant in intron 7. This previously unreported variant was tested in 347 normal control subjects, and 11 heterozygotes and 2 T/T individuals were found. No TBX6 variants were identified. We infer that the c.1013C>T substitution is pathogenic and represents the first report of an association between a missense mutation in the T gene and the occurrence of sporadic CVMs in humans. It is uncertain whether the splice junction variant increases CVM risk. TBX6 mutations do not seem to be associated with CVM. We hypothesize that epistatic interactions between T and other developmental genes and the environment modulate the phenotypic consequences of T variants.
,   We describe a genetic analysis of the human homologue (T) of the mouse T (Brachyury) gene; human T was recently cloned in our laboratory. The protein product of the T gene is a transcription factor crucial in vertebrates for the formation of normal mesoderm. T mutant Brachyury mice die in midgestation with severe defects in posterior mesodermal tissues; heterozygous mice are viable but have posterior axial malformations. In addition to its importance in development, T has intrigued geneticists because of its association with the mouse t-haplotype; this haplotype is a variant form of the t-complex and is characterized by transmission ratio distortion, male sterility and recombination suppression. We have identified a common polymorphism of human T by single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and used this in mapping studies and to re-investigate the idea that human T is involved in susceptibility to the multifactorial, neural tube defect, spina bifida. Our mapping data show that human T maps to 6q27 and lies between two other genes of the t-complex, TCP1 and TCP10. These data add to the evidence that in man the genes of the t-complex are split into two main locations on the short and long arms of chromosome 6. We have used an allele association test which is independent of mode of inheritance and penetrance to analyse data from the spina bifida families. Using this test we find evidence for a significant (p = 0.02) association between transmission of the TIVS7-2 allele of the human T gene and spina bifida.
,   The distinction between chondrosarcoma and chordoma of the skull base/head and neck is prognostically important; however, both have sufficient morphologic overlap to make delineation difficult. As a result of gene expression studies, additional candidate markers have been proposed to help in separating those entities. We sought to evaluate the performance of new markers: brachyury, SOX-9, and podoplanin alongside the more traditional markers glial fibrillary acid protein, carcinoembryonic antigen, CD24, and epithelial membrane antigen. Paraffin blocks from 103 skull base/head and neck chondroid tumors from 70 patients were retrieved (1969-2007). Diagnoses were made based on morphology and/or whole-section immunohistochemistry for cytokeratin and S100 protein yielding 79 chordomas (comprising 45 chondroid chordomas and 34 conventional chordomas), and 24 chondrosarcomas. A tissue microarray containing 0.6 mm cores of each tumor in triplicate was constructed using a manual array (MTA-1; Beecher Instruments). For visualization of staining, the ImmPRESS detection system (Vector Laboratories) with 2-diaminobenzidine substrate was used. Sensitivities and specificities were calculated for each marker. Core loss from the microarray ranged from 25 to 29% yielding 66-78 viable cases per stain. The classic marker, cytokeratin, still has the best performance characteristics. When combined with brachyury, accuracy improves slightly (sensitivity and specificity for detection of chordoma 98 and 100%, respectively). Positivity for both epithelial membrane antigen and AE1/AE3 had a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 100% for detecting chordoma in this study. SOX-9 is apparently common to both notochordal and cartilaginous differentiation, and is not useful in the chordoma-chondrosarcoma differential diagnosis. Glial fibrillary acid protein, carcinoembryonic antigen, CD24, and epithelial membrane antigen did not outperform other markers, and are less useful in the diagnosis of chordoma vs chondrosarcoma. Podoplanin still remains the only positive marker for chondrosarcoma, though its accuracy is less than previously reported.
,   Brachyury is recognized as a specific marker for notochord-derived tissues and neoplasms, and has become a defining immunohistochemical feature of chordoma. The main differential diagnostic consideration for chordoma is chondrosarcoma, which is known to lack brachyury expression. However, within the spectrum of genitourinary neoplasia, metastatic germ cell tumors and clear cell renal cell carcinoma may also be close morphological mimics of chordoma, particularly given the increasing prevalence of small tissue samples from image-guided biopsies. Although immunoreactivity for brachyury has been reported in a few germ cell tumors, a thorough characterization of staining by specific subtype has not been performed in a large series. Additionally, brachyury expression in clear cell renal cell carcinoma has not been well studied. In this study, immunohistochemical expression with the brachyury antibody was evaluated in 111 germ cell tumors, 30 non-neoplastic and neoplastic (non-germ cell) testicular tissues, and 184 metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas using tissue microarray technology. In addition, immunoreactivity for PAX-8 and SALL-4 was evaluated in 12 chordomas on whole section. No nuclear brachyury expression was identified in any of the 101 germ cell tumors within the tissue microarray (including choriocarcinoma (1), embryonal carcinoma (20), intratubular germ cell neoplasia unclassified (2), seminoma (64), spermatocytic seminoma (1), teratoma (5) and yolk sac tumor (8)), in any of the 30 non-neoplastic and neoplastic (non-germ cell) testicular tissues, or in any of the 10 whole-section seminomas. All 184 metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas were also non-reactive for brachyury. All 12 chordomas showed strong nuclear immunoreactivity for brachyury, but no expression of SALL-4. In all, 1 of 12 chordoma cases showed patchy, 1+ nuclear immunoreactivity for PAX-8. This study confirms the specificity of brachyury for chordoma in the differential diagnostic distinction from the potential genitourinary mimics, germ cell tumors and metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
,   The development of the hematopoietic system involves multiple cellular steps beginning with the formation of the mesoderm from the primitive streak, followed by emergence of precursor populations that become committed to either the endothelial or hematopoietic lineages. A number of growth factors such as activins and fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are known to regulate the early specification of hematopoietic fated mesoderm, notably in amphibians. However, the potential roles of these factors in the development of mesoderm and subsequent hematopoiesis in the human have yet to be delineated. Defining the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which combinations of mesoderm-inducing factors regulate this stepwise process in human cells in vitro is central to effectively directing human embryonic stem cell (hESC) hematopoietic differentiation. Herein, using hESC-derived embryoid bodies (EBs), we show that Activin A, but not basic FGF/FGF2 (bFGF), promotes hematopoietic fated mesodermal specification from pluripotent human cells. The effect of Activin A treatment relies on the presence of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) and both of the hematopoietic cytokines stem cell factor and fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor-3 ligand, and is the consequence of 2 separate mechanisms occurring at 2 different stages of human EB development from mesoderm to blood. While Activin A promotes the induction of mesoderm, as indicated by the upregulation of Brachyury expression, which represents the mesodermal precursor required for hematopoietic development, it also contributes to the expansion of cells already committed to a hematopoietic fate. As hematopoietic development requires the transition through a Brachyury+ intermediate, we demonstrate that hematopoiesis in hESCs is impaired by the downregulation of Brachyury, but is unaffected by its overexpression. These results demonstrate, for the first time, the functional significance of Brachyury in the developmental program of hematopoietic differentiation from hESCs and provide an in-depth understanding of the molecular cues that orchestrate stepwise development of hematopoiesis in a human system.
,   Axial chordoma represents approximately 1% of malignant bone tumors. This tumor expresses cytokeratins, specifically cytokeratin 19, and commonly S100. More recently brachyury, a transcription factor important in mesodermal differentiation, including notochord development, has been detected by immunohistochemistry in axial chordomas and hemangioblastomas but not chondrosarcomas or other neoplasms. In this report, we describe 10 cases (6 men, 4 women: age 18 to 68 y; mean 44.6) of extra-axial tumors, 8 in bone and 2 in soft tissue, with morphologic and immunohistochemical features identical to those of axial chordoma. Imaging excluded metastases from axial chordoma. Three tumors occurred in the tibia, the others in the rib, metatarsal, ulna, femur, pubis: 2 intracortical, 6 intramedullary. Both soft tissue brachyury-positive tumors, one involving the thumb the other the wrist, were sited in the juxta-articular region. Seven of the tumors were widely excised and these patients are disease-free but of the 3 tumors that recurred, 1 was curetted, 1 was marginally excised, and 1 had a pathologic fracture on presentation. Metastases have not occurred in any of the patients. We also confirm the expression of brachyury in hemangioblastomas, and for the first time demonstrates its expression in spermatogonia and testicular germ cell tumors by immunohistochemistry. Brachyury was not detected in a wide range of tumors including carcinomas, lymphomas, and sarcomas. In conclusion, we describe the first series of extra-axial skeletal chordomas bringing the total number of such cases reported in the literature to 11, and present the first report of 2 soft tissue chordomas as defined by brachyury expression.
,   This study aimed to identify an immunohistochemical panel to aid in the differential diagnosis for tumors with clear cell morphology. Twenty-five clear cell renal cell carcinomas (CCRCCs), 19 clear cell ovarian carcinoma (CCOCs), 20 cases of adrenal cortical carcinomas(ACCs), and 10 chordomas were stained for renal cell carcinoma marker (RCC Ma), Pax8, brachyury, and steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1). The extent of stains was scored as focal (<25%), nonfocal (25%-50%), and diffuse (>50%). The intensity was scored as weak, moderate, and strong. Twenty-two CCRCCs were positive for RCC Ma (88%) and Pax8 (88%), respectively. The RCC Ma cytoplasmic staining was largely diffuse (76%) and strong (76%). The nuclear Pax8 staining was usually diffuse (76%) and moderate (64%) to strong (8%). All of CCRCCs were negative for brachyury and SF-1. All of 19 CCOCs were positive for Pax8 nuclear staining. The staining was diffuse, moderate (21%) to strong (79%). All of CCOCs were negative for RCC Ma, brachyury, and SF-1. All of 20 ACCs were positive for SF-1 nuclear staining. The staining was largely diffuse (95%), moderate (55%) to strong (15%). All of ACC were negative for RCC Ma, Pax8, and brachyury. All of 10 chordomas were positive for brachyury nuclear staining. The staining was diffuse and strong. All of chordomas were negative for RCC Ma, Pax8, and SF-1. In summary, the panel of RCC Ma, Pax8, brachyury, and SF-1 is useful in the differential diagnosis of tumors with clear morphology.
,   Hemangioblastoma (HBL) accounts for up to 2.5% of all intracranial tumors. It may occur as a sporadic entity or as a part of Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. Patients with Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome are also at an increased risk of developing clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC). The distinction of HBL from CCRCC metastatic to the central nervous system (CNS) or from other histologic mimics can be challenging at times when based solely on hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections. In the present study we evaluated the potential use of the immunohistochemical evaluation of brachyury protein in the differential diagnosis of these lesions. Archival tissues from 22 HBLs, 16 primary CCRCCs, 8 CCRCCs metastatic to the CNS, and 4 angiomatous and 4 clear cell meningiomas were retrieved from our surgical pathology files and submitted to the immunohistochemical procedures against brachyury. Cases showing nuclear and/or cytoplasmic staining were considered to be positive for brachyury. Positive cytoplasmic staining was evidenced in the stromal cells of 20 of the 22 HBLs. In most cases, >50% of the neoplastic cells were labeled, with strong or moderate intensity of staining. No nuclear or cytoplasmic staining for brachyury was observed in any of the primary renal or metastatic CCRCCs, nor in either of the meningioma types. Thus, brachyury cytoplasmic staining was demonstrated to be highly specific for HBL (specificity, 100%) and represented a sensible (sensitivity, 91%) method, with high positive (100%) and negative (89%) predictive values and high diagnostic accuracy (95%) in the differential diagnosis between HBL and CCRCC metastatic to the CNS or meningioma. On the basis of our findings we propose the use of brachyury as an additional helpful immunohistochemical marker to resolve the differential diagnosis of HBL toward histologic mimics.
,   Recent evidence suggests that the expression of brachyury is necessary for chordoma growth. However, the mechanism associated with brachyury-regulated cell growth is poorly understood. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF), a regulator of brachyury expression in normal tissue, may also play an important role in chordoma pathophysiology. Using a panel of chordoma cell lines, we explored the role of FGF signaling and brachyury in cell growth and survival. Western blots showed that all chordoma cell lines expressed fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2), FGFR3, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), whereas no cell lines expressed FGFR1 and FGFR4. Results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay indicated that chordoma cells produced FGF2. Neutralization of FGF2 inhibited MEK/ERK phosphorylation, decreased brachyury expression and induced apoptosis while reducing cell growth. Activation of the FGFR/MEK/ERK/brachyury pathway by FGF2-initiated phosphorylation of FGFR substrate 2 (FRS2)-α (Tyr196) prevented apoptosis while promoting cell growth and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Immunofluorescence staining showed that FGF2 promoted the translocation of phosphorylated ERK to the nucleus and increased brachyury expression. The selective inhibition of FGFR, MEK and ERK phosphorylation by PD173074, PD0325901 and PD184352, respectively, decreased brachyury expression, induced apoptosis, and inhibited cell growth and EMT. Moreover, knockdown of brachyury by small hairpin RNA reduced FGF2 secretion, inhibited FGFR/MEK/ERK phosphorylation and blocked the effects of FGF2 on cell growth, apoptosis and EMT. Those findings highlight that FGFR/MEK/ERK/brachyury pathway coordinately regulates chordoma cell growth and survival and may represent a novel chemotherapeutic target for chordoma.
,   Body fat distribution, particularly centralized obesity, is associated with metabolic risk above and beyond total adiposity. We performed genome-wide association of abdominal adipose depots quantified using computed tomography (CT) to uncover novel loci for body fat distribution among participants of European ancestry. Subcutaneous and visceral fat were quantified in 5,560 women and 4,997 men from 4 population-based studies. Genome-wide genotyping was performed using standard arrays and imputed to ~2.5 million Hapmap SNPs. Each study performed a genome-wide association analysis of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT), visceral adipose tissue (VAT), VAT adjusted for body mass index, and VAT/SAT ratio (a metric of the propensity to store fat viscerally as compared to subcutaneously) in the overall sample and in women and men separately. A weighted z-score meta-analysis was conducted. For the VAT/SAT ratio, our most significant p-value was rs11118316 at LYPLAL1 gene (p = 3.1 × 10E-09), previously identified in association with waist-hip ratio. For SAT, the most significant SNP was in the FTO gene (p = 5.9 × 10E-08). Given the known gender differences in body fat distribution, we performed sex-specific analyses. Our most significant finding was for VAT in women, rs1659258 near THNSL2 (p = 1.6 × 10-08), but not men (p = 0.75). Validation of this SNP in the GIANT consortium data demonstrated a similar sex-specific pattern, with observed significance in women (p = 0.006) but not men (p = 0.24) for BMI and waist circumference (p = 0.04 [women], p = 0.49 [men]). Finally, we interrogated our data for the 14 recently published loci for body fat distribution (measured by waist-hip ratio adjusted for BMI); associations were observed at 7 of these loci. In contrast, we observed associations at only 7/32 loci previously identified in association with BMI; the majority of overlap was observed with SAT. Genome-wide association for visceral and subcutaneous fat revealed a SNP for VAT in women. More refined phenotypes for body composition and fat distribution can detect new loci not previously uncovered in large-scale GWAS of anthropometric traits.
]
